PH The Lost City Of Z The Lost City Of Z (15, 140mins) Director: James Gray Stars: Charlie Hunnam, Robert Pattinson, Sienna Miller What exactly happened when the obsessed British Army officer took off for a third expedition with his 22-year-old son Jack, convinced that buried in the jungle of Brazil was a fabled city of gold that was evidence of a lost civilisation he called “Z”? Aside from the awkward fact that we don’t know the ending, so the story’s climax is pure speculation, it should be a rousing tale of courage and quest for knowledge with an impassioned (perhaps unknowable) British eccentric at the helm – not unlike TE Lawrence if you substitute the jungle for the desert. The romantic attachment is certainly there, as the film reveals. Despite all the privations Fawcett feels an increasing affinity with the Indian tribespeople and their advanced civilisation, evidence of which he uncovers on his first mission in 1906 when the Royal Geographic Society sent him to map a contentious border between Bolivia and Brazil. “We’ve been so arrogant and contemptuous,” he says of the West. Like Lawrence, he has a strong sense of personal destiny (bolstered at one point by an encounter with a clairvoyant) and he feels an almost mystical communion with the foreign world he encounters. While there is much to enjoy in The Lost City Of Z, in what is a pleasingly old-school historical adventure that is beautifully filmed on location in Colombia, the problem is old Percy Fawcett himself. He is played by strapping blond Briton Charlie Hunnam, best known for the TV series Sons Of Anarchy. Hunnam is a fine actor and injects Fawcett with dignity and courage but boy is he a bore; a deeply earnest obsessive without any sparkle or energising passion. He’s more Jeremy Corbyn than Indiana Jones. For a while he commands sympathy and interest as an underdog not given due opportunity militarily because of some ill-defined family scandal (“He’s been rather unfortunate in his choice of ancestors,” sniffs one old buffer) but he soon enough fails the first test of leadership: inspire your followers or, in this case, the audience. I wouldn’t have followed Percy Fawcett up Piccadilly let alone into the Amazon. Rather than dashing and intriguing, the man is dull and humourless while his obsession with a lost civilisation “that may pre-date our own” becomes rather wearying and repetitive. Charismatic visionary he is not. Certainly he appears to arouse no excitement in his aide-de-camp Henry Costin, played by Twilight’s Robert Pattinson with a thick beard and air of almost complete disinterest. The pair’s relationship is of no dramatic value at all. Pattinson gives a convincing performance but his presence adds nothing. More lively and spirited is Fawcett’s wife Nina (Sienna Miller), who rather miraculously manages to have three children despite the couple’s endless separations. If at times she feels a touch too self-consciously modern (“I’m an independent woman,” she declares) at least she breathes some passion into the story, at one point tearing into her husband for not taking her with him into the jungle. Fawcett’s relationship with his son Jack (Tom Holland) should be powerful and affecting but the boy appears too late in the drama to make his presence felt and then transforms almost overnight from bitter son, resentful at being abandoned (earning a slap from Dad, no less), to hero-worshipping acolyte. PH Chips And then we come to the film’s rather trippy climax in the jungle when writer-director James Gray posits his theory as to what befell father and son. Unfortunately, there is no evidence to back this up. One imagines the pair might just as easily have met a gruesome end, old Percy pickled in guilt and his poor boy furious with him and terrified. Who knows? The Lost City Of Z is ambitious and well made and full of incidental interest but you can’t help feeling that it’s a missed opportunity. In that respect, at least, it has much in common with its protagonist. Chips (18, 101mins) Director: Dax Shepard Stars: Dax Shepard, Michael Pena I can’t remember much about the TV show CHiPS, other than that it featured two motorcycling dudes in sunglasses in the California Highway Patrol and was one of my favourite shows growing up in the 1980s. I’m pretty sure, however, the two cops were not sexist and homophobic buffoons obsessed with bodily functions and extreme sex acts. I can’t quite imagine my mother allowing me to watch it alongside my Marmite on toast. Oh dear, this big-screen version, co-written and directed by Dax Shepard who also stars as gormless new recruit Jon Baker, is a tasteless and joke-free motorcycle crash that owes nothing to the cheeky, chippy, tone of the original. Films Set in 2017 Tue, January 3, 2017 It's the year 2017 both in Hollywood and now, in reality. Play slideshow Heyday Films 1 of 6 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 (2011): The infamous epilogue scene is set 19 years later to 2017 The result is a lowest common denominator buddy comedy that doesn’t come close to the witty invention of another TV cop show recently reconceived for the big screen, 21 Jump Street, which was presumably an inspiration. Not even as dumb entertainment does the picture work. The tedious plot about some crooked cops manages to be both unfathomably confusing and utterly inconsequential. The talented Michael Pena makes a fool of himself alongside as Shepard’s partner Frank Poncherello, who is also a sex addict. Mother, help! VERDICT: 1/5 PH Life