The film does a fantastic job of displaying the character's deep-rooted passion for travelling afar Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Don’t be fooled by the style of poster, the name or the fact we have a handsome action hero as the star – this is most definitely NOT the new Raiders of the Lost Ark. It is however and incredibly beautiful and well structured film – produced, shot and performed with a real passion intent on minting the integrity of the story. Sportsphoto Ltd./Allstar 4 Charlie Hunnam stars as the unlikable protagonist Colonel Percy Fawcett This is aiming for an old school Attenborough modus operandi and isn’t far off at all. It’s so confident in itself it has wisely chosen not to plant a McConaughey, Pitt or Felicity Jones in the starring roles – instead allowing the cast of Hunnam, Miller and Pattinson breathing space to really shine. Col. Percy Fawcett is a British explorer who discovers evidence of an unknown civilisation in the Amazon jungle at the turn of the 20th Century. Sportsphoto Ltd./Allstar 4 This film does a great job at displaying the protagonist’s passion for exploration Lost City of Z film trailer starring Robert Pattinson & Charlie Hunnam MOST READ IN FILM KHALEE-SEE Emilia Clarke strips naked for raunchy sex scenes in new film thriller Voice from the Stone TRAINSPOTTING RETURNS Ewan McGregor and Robert Carlyle lead stars at glamorous T2 Trainspotting premiere In the Money(penny) Here's who's in line to replace Daniel Craig as the new James Bond Feel the force Star Wars actor John Boyega switches space for the stage in Old Vic production Woyzeck A'HOY THERE Pirates of the Caribbean fans go crazy as Johnny Depp turns up at Disneyland dressed as Captain Jack Sparrow Jamie East at the movies With great acting and CGI, Guardians Of The Galaxy Vol 2 is out of this world NOT SO PROMISING Hollywood take on 1914 man-made disaster in The Promise fails as romantic drama LETHAL TV Meet Clayne Crawford, actor who plays Martin Riggs in Lethal Weapon MAKING A SPLASH Halle Berry strips off naked for cheeky skinny dip after the Oscars and admits she 'couldn't wait' to whip off her Versace dress TINSELTOWN LOVE La La Land has enjoyed Oscars and BAFTA glory - but does Ryan Gosling really play the piano? GET THOSE COSMOS ON ICE! Sex and the City 3 ‘confirmed’ as Sarah Jessica Parker and co get set for big screen return FROM GALLIFREY TO THE GALAXY Karen Gillan gets ready for new space adventure with latest role in Guardians of the Galaxy: Volume 2 GOING UNDERGROUND The Hatton Garden Job is this year's must see Easter film - the FULL lowdown TWICE AS ICE We take a look at what we know so far about Frozen 2's release date, storyline and cast NORTHERN STAR Meet Lee Ingleby, star of Inspector George Gently and Harry Potter and a new Line of Duty cast member DUTCH COURAGE Dakota Johnson says she had to down whiskey before sex scenes with Fifty Shades co-star Jamie Dornan WE'VE BEEN EXPECTING YOU Daniel Craig is 'ready to do a final James Bond' after being persuaded by producer SAVING LIVES Who's in the new Baywatch movie and when is it released? Cast, date and trailer - all you need to know HASTA LA VISTA, BABY The kid who played the young John Connor in blockbuster Terminator 2 looks VERY different now Mocked by his peers, the discovery becomes an obsession from which he can’t escape - regardless of the impact this has on his life. All the cast do stellar work - in particular Robert Pattinson playing a soused Richard Dreyfuss-style sidekick. Sienna Miller is bloody good but massively underused as Nina, the suffragette wife. Aside from a few rousing speeches, she’s left to stare out of the window for years on end wondering if and when her husband was coming home. Sportsphoto Ltd./Allstar 4 Fawcett discovers evidence of an unknown civilisation which he sets out to explore Excitingly Tom Holland is the standout, as son Jack - the forthcoming Spiderman reboot aside, he is a huge talent to look out for. So Percy trots off to the jungle, nearly finds something, gets despondent, returns home, gets his wife up the duff then gets itchy feet so sods off back again. Multiple times. Sportsphoto Ltd./Allstar 4 The selfish main character would rather die in the jungle than face up to what's going on back home That’s the film. Whether Lost City of Z is supposed to make us root for or against Percy depends on where your views lie - It certainly does a great job of displaying his passion for exploration, but it left me watching a selfish bloke who would rather die in the jungle than face up to his responsibilities at home. The ambiguously teasing ending wasn’t really enough for me to consider this the stonecold-classic many have praised it as. Sure it looks utterly incredible and is as epic as it is grand and there is no doubting the massive talent of those involved… I just didn’t care that much for the hero. Soz. Lost City of Z (15) 95mins ★★★★☆ FILM OF THE WEEK