The incredible true-life tale of British soldier/explorer Percy Fawcett gets the silver-screen treatment it so richly deserves, with director James Gray (The Immigrant) skippering a soul-stirring voyage into the Herzogian wilds of the unexplored Amazon. The deliberate, measured approach might test the patience of those expecting a rollicking old-fashioned adventure, but don't be put off. Not for a second. Gray's thoughtful, intelligent and wonderfully uncynical film possesses a quiet but undeniable power, and at journey's end you're left with a profound and moving celebration of a man who simply refused to accept that the world had no more wonders to reveal. While perhaps not the most obvious casting choice, Charlie Hunnam (Sons of Anarchy) grows impressively into the role of the artillery officer and cartographer tapped by the stuffy old guard of the Royal Geographical Society to help draw up border lines between Bolivia and Brazil at the turn of the 20th century. It means leaving behind devoted, strong-willed wife Nina (Sienna Miller superb in yet another supporting role) while she's pregnant with their second child, but the chance to restore honour to a family name tarnished by his gambler and drunk of a father is too tempting to pass up. Soon there's more than just pride at stake, though. After joining up with eccentric second-in-command Henry Costin (Robert Pattinson rocking a big, bushy beard and gaunt, hollow-eyed stare that gives him the look of an emaciated Amishman) and somehow surviving the unforgiving horrors of the uncharted jungle, Fawcett becomes convinced that somewhere - deep, deep downriver - is a lost city of maize and gold. Finding Z, as he names it, becomes his all-consuming reason to be. His belief that it's out there waiting for him is unshakeable, and his determination and drive to seek it out survives not only the ridicule of an arrogant and bigoted academic establishment, but also the bloody, desperate battlefields of the Somme. There's a moment, ahead of what is to be Fawcett's final expedition, where a frustrated but ultimately accepting Nina quotes Browning's Andrea del Sarto ("Ah, but a man's reach should exceed his grasp, Or what's a heaven for?"). If it doesn't put a sizeable lump in your throat then there's every chance you're a little bit broken. Andy Psyllides