But Fawcett was the real deal, and he really and truly believed he found evidence of an ancient, advanced civilization while mapping then-uncharted Bolivia that pre-dated anything the white aristocracy of Mother England were willing to acknowledge in his time. He began to believe in a lost city of gold, and that became his mission and eventually his obsession to find it. No matter what life threw at him -- marriage, fatherhood to three kids, World War I service -- Percy never stopped yearning to get back to Amazonia. "The Lost City of City," written and directed by James Gray, is a remarkable adventure movie, shot traditional-style on 35 mm film and performed by a group of actors who really do look plucked out of time. Yes, folks, even Robert Pattinson -- that sparkly, dreamy bloodsucker from the "Twilight" movies -- acquits himself well here as Percy's introverted, but fiercely loyal aide-de-camp. Sienna Miller also works wonders with her long-suffering wife role, proving that behind every great man who leaves his family for months and years at a time there's an even greater woman back at the hearth keeping the home fires burning. Charlie Hunnam plays Percy, and it's a role originally slated for Brad Pitt (who was a producer on this). You can clearly see what Pitt would have done in the role, getting all furry on the face and smudgy with jungle and battlefield grime. You can also see elements of what Heath Ledger might have done with this part had he still been alive and offered the role. But Hunnam is impressive in showing the steady page turns of the life of an explorer who starts off brash and full of ego to a man humbled by war and becoming intimate with exotic cultures most of his contemporaries dismiss as jungle savagery. My one big gripe with the film is that it tries to make Percy Fawcett too perfect. In some scenes, he has the progressive mindset and views of a bullhorn-wielding Trump protestor circa 2017, calling to task a white establishment and church hierarchy that feels a bit too modern compared to the rest of the picture. The guy, meanwhile, almost always is right. An opening hunt sequence (thrilling in its editing and cinematography) has Percy as the only member of the hunting party breaking off from the pack, braving uncleared land, and getting the best shot at a fleeing buck. Once in the jungle, natives' arrows veer away from, and he contracts none of the diseases or rashes as the other men. Sure, he buys four slaves to help out on his first expedition. But he treats them just as well as his white companions. He almost never shows any fear. The moments where "The Lost City of Z" really comes alive is when Fawcett is truly challenged, tested. I wanted to see more of the man's ego and single-minded drive that was known to push boundaries and re-imagine borders … but would often lead to men getting killed and longer and longer stretches of time away from family. Hunnam is exceptional in depicting the man's drive. I just wanted to see a bit more of his beautiful madness. Imagine a crazy-eyed Mel Gibson circa mid-1990s in this part. Imagine a Heath Ledger. It's not a killing flaw, though. Hunnam is a bona fide lead here and not just a poor man's Pitt or Matt Damon. And the rest of the film -- from the locations and cinematography to the writing and performances (Ian McDiarmid himself gives Percy his marching orders -- yeah, The Emperor!) -- is all there. And Gray expertly moves from high-class costume drama to jungle adventure trekking to grim war film, and he ends this film with one final image that is among the most haunting of any film I've seen in recent memory. A very enthusiastic recommend on this, folks! I give it a 7.5 out of 10. (T. Durgin)