Tom Holland, center left, and Charlie Hunnam, center right, play son and father in James Gray's The Lost City of Z. ( Aidan Monaghan / Amazon Studios via The Associated Press ) The Lost City of Z Starring Charlie Hunnam, Robert Pattinson, Sienna Miller, Angus Macfadyen and Tom Holland. Written and directed by James Gray. Opens Friday at major theatres. 142 minutes. 14A What makes a man abandon home and family to pursue a dangerous and perhaps impossible dream? James Gray ponders the query in The Lost City of Z, taking the road less travelled, literally and figuratively, for his enveloping jungle Grail quest. Article Continued Below Unfolding like Coppola’s Apocalypse Now by way of Kubrick’s Barry Lyndon, it’s as much an adventure of the mind as of the eye, although cinematographer Darius Khondji outdoes himself with stunning visuals. Writer/director Gray (The Immigrant) values character, mood and message over rote action. Most filmmakers would exploit the Indiana Jones aspects of David Grann’s 2009 nonfiction source book, which detailed the decades-long search by ex-British Army stalwart Percy Fawcett — brilliantly played by Sons of Anarchy’s Charlie Hunnam — for evidence of the golden ancient civilization he was convinced lay within enshrouding rainforest. Indy-isms are surely there, right from Fawcett’s initial Amazonian foray in 1906, when he unflinchingly accepts a Royal Geographical Society mission to map the Rio Verde bordering Bolivia and Brazil. It’s a perilous river of colonial brutality and robber-baron capitalism (the “black gold” of rubber). Fawcett is warned “the journey might well mean your life.” Fawcett shows no fear as his men — including good friend Henry Costin, played by a bearded and intense Robert Pattinson — gamely take on threatening locals (poison darts, cannibalism), toothsome wildlife (piranha, panthers, snakes) and treacherous interlopers (Angus Macfadyen) over repeat journeys prompted as much by obsession as duty. What fascinates Gray, and invites reflective viewing, is Fawcett’s determination to not only prove his manly mettle — his drunkard father shamed the family name — but also to contribute to mankind’s knowledge of the world. Yet it’s inherently a selfish and destructive quest, no matter how worthy, as it involves the intrusion of one culture upon another. Rare for a film like this, the toll on the family left behind is also totted up. Sienna Miller powerfully inhabits her few scenes as Nina, Fawcett’s long-suffering wife. She observes that it’s the “essential nature” of her husband — and later her grown son, played by Tom Holland — to embrace danger. The Lost City of Z eschews multiplex formulae in favour of the jungle of the mind, a much more fertile place to explore. Peter Howell Charlotte Le Bon, from left, Oscar Isaac and Christian Bale are in a war-time love triangle in The Promise. ( Jose Haro ) The Promise Starring Oscar Isaac, Charlotte Le Bon, Christian Bale. Co-written and directed by Terry George. Opens Friday at major theatres. 122 minutes. A love triangle amidst the trauma of war — it’s a familiar story. What filmmaker Terry George does a little differently is place the story amidst the backdrop of the genocide against the Armenian people by the Turkish government during the First World War. Widely acknowledged as the first genocide of the 20th century, it’s one the Turkish government strenuously denies to this day, despite extensive documented evidence and eyewitness accounts. Oscar Isaac plays Mikael Boghosian, an apothecary studying to become a doctor who finds himself drawn to Ana (Charlotte Le Bon), a French woman who’s attached to an American reporter (Christian Bale). But the war unleashes a long-simmering racism against Armenians and George goes to great pains to demonstrate just how utterly savage and evil the Turkish were to people they’d live alongside for generations. The performances are quite good, especially many of the supporting ones, and Isaac brings humanity and intensity to the lead role. But the love triangle fizzles, taking a back seat to the bigger picture. It’s nonetheless a well-executed and reasonably engrossing film. Bruce DeMara Writer Jane Jacobs in a scene from the documentary Citizen Jane: Battle for the City, directed by Matt Tyrnauer. ( Library of Congress ) Citizen Jane: Battle for the City Documentary about Jane Jacobs directed by Matt Tyrnauer. Opens Friday at TIFF Bell Lightbox. 92 minutes. G. Writer Jane Jacobs arrived on the scene with her unorthodox idea that cities are about people, not buildings, just as New York’s urban planners were tearing down tenements and replacing them with projects that eliminated the very foot traffic that she contended made a city. While Robert Moses was wielding immense planning power in postwar New York, erecting faceless towers in the name of progress, Jacobs was speaking out against the gospel of the time and suggesting that busy mixed use areas and diversity — of work, of people, of housing — are what makes a city a safe and livable place. Through talks with current experts, archival footage and interviews, readings and writings from Jacobs herself, director Matt Tyrnauer (Valentino: The Last Emperor) explores what lead Jacobs to write her groundbreaking work The Death and Life of Great American Cities. Jacobs, of course, eventually moved to Toronto and helped to stop the Spadina Expressway. Anyone interested in the way cities work should hop the TTC and go to see this. (For details about a Jane’s Walk event prior to Friday night’s screening, go to tiff.net) Kathryn Laskaris The panda family from Disneynature's documentary Born in China, narrated by John Krasinski. ( Walt Disney Company ) Born in China Documentary on pandas narrated by John Krasinski. Directed by Chuan Lu. Opens Friday at major theatres. 76 minutes. G Baby pandas don’t even need Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to induce awws. No wonder DisneyNature puts the giant panda at the heart of their marketing for their ninth original animal documentary, Born in China. The narration by The Office star John Krasinski doubles down on their adorability, describing their “snuggles” and “cuddles.” It’s a washing machine away from a fabric softener ad. Yet as a panda’s enviable daily agenda consists of napping, scratching her butt and bingeing on 40 pounds of bamboo, Born in China also searches for drama among other endangered Chinese animals including a new mother snow leopard, a group of Tibetan antelope and a tribe of golden snub-nose monkeys. While the footage is breathtaking, these animal tales get wobblier every year at walking the line between educational fun and hard-to-swallow stories of animals acting out human narratives. For a film so primed to court educators in search of an Earth Day field trip, Born in China should hold itself to a higher standard of kid-friendly facts. Unless, of course, scientists really have found that pandas find parenting deeply rewarding. Ryan Porter Brie Larson is the only woman in the room in Free Fire, and seems a sidekick at first, but underestimating her would be a serious mistake. ( Kerry Brown ) Free Fire Starring Brie Larson, Sam Riley, Cillian Murphy and Armie Hammer. Directed by Ben Wheatley. Opens Friday at major theatres. 90 minutes. 18A Director Ben Wheatley isn’t known for subtlety. And for much of Free Fire, that’s just fine. His 1978-set drama about a transaction between IRA soldiers and arms dealers in an abandoned Boston warehouse sees things go sideways, turning into a free-for-all that eventually gets repetitive. Things do go on and on as one-dimensional characters spend the movie evading flying bullets and insulting each other, although an amusingly out-of-context Top 40 tune makes a fun cameo. Co-written by Wheatley and spouse and collaborator Amy Jump (High- Rise), the dialogue is sharp, with Cillian Murphy and Sharlto Copley (as Vernon, the dim bulb who thinks he’s a genius) trading barbs as captains of opposing sides of the guns-for-cash deal. Armie Hammer is chill hip cat Ord, the guy who thinks he’s in charge. He’s not. That would be Justine (Brie Larson). She’s the only woman in the room and seems a sidekick at first. Underestimating her would be a serious mistake. Linda Barnard Read more about: