Movie adaptations of books can be divided into two categories: Those that are more likely to appeal to readers of the book and those that are more apt to appeal to those who didn’t read it. “The Lost City of Z” falls somewhere in between. James Gray, who wrote and directed “Lost City,” has chosen to focus on just half of David Grann’s riveting book, and that’s probably wise (filming the whole book would result in a miniseries). Gray has excised the present-day narrative in which Grann travels to South America to trace the steps of British adventurer Percival Fawcett (Charlie Hunnam), who made several trips into the jungle a century ago in search of a perhaps-fictional civilization. That decision allows Gray to spend all his time on Fawcett’s adventures. Related Articles Movie review: Romanian thriller ‘Graduation’ gets better by degrees Micro reviews and previews of movies for the week of April 23 Review: Kidman’s ‘Queen of the Desert’? ‘Lawrence of Arabia,’ it ain’t Video: Here are 12 sneak peeks at films featured at the Minneapolis/St. Paul International Film Festival Review: Jessica Chastain rescues ‘The Zookeeper’s Wife’ One weird thing, though: Those adventures aren’t very adventurous. As Fawcett repeatedly journeys into the treacherous, violent Amazon, there’s little suspense or terror in the movie. People die and searches get called off without making much of an impact. That’s because Gray is less interested in the explornographic elements of Fawcett’s story than in the spiritual ways the rain forest altered Fawcett’s perception. By the end, the movie argues, Fawcett wasn’t in pursuit of archaeological discoveries; he was in search of something closer to the meaning of life. Gray’s choices in “The Lost City of Z” bring the movie closer to the world of his other movies, including “The Immigrant” and “We Own the Night,” which are almost always about characters who are fighting against long odds to find themselves. That gives Hunnam a dandy role as a man whose physical challenges on trips through the jungle are exceeded by the inner demons that drive him back to those giant ferns again and again. “Lost City” also gives Sienna Miller a rare break from the boring, arm-candy roles she usually gets. She’s Fawcett’s almost unbelievably understanding wife, Nina, who single-handedly raises a family and remains supportive of her husband’s quest — all while keeping silent about her own dreams, which the rules of early-20th-century Britain made it impossible for her to pursue. That relationship seems to be what attracted Gray to “Lost City of Z,” rather than the adventure story that drove the book. Percy and Nina, in a sense, want the same thing but they cannot both have it, so their conflict is unresolvable: Finding “The Lost City of Z” would be a simultaneous triumph for Percy and tragedy for Nina, who can only hear about the discovery from an ocean away. “THE LOST CITY OF Z”