CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share Charlie Hunnam plays an explorer searching the Amazon for a long-lost city of Z, which he calls "the ultimate piece of the human puzzle." USA TODAY The film immerses us in the jungle, where anything can happen. Percy (Charlie Hunnam, top) and Jack (Tom Holland) are father and son in "The Lost City of Z." (Photo: Aidan Monaghan) Story Highlights Critic's rating: 4 out of 5 stars “The Lost City of Z” is a throwback, an epic film about a grand adventure. If it doesn’t always quite reach the majestic heights to which it aspires, particularly with its narrative, the mere attempt is engrossing. James Gray (“We Own the Night,” “The Immigrant”) goes for broke in his story of the real-life English explorer Col. Percival Fawcett (Charlie Hunnam), who begins the film as a nondescript military officer at the beginning of the 20th century and ends it as a man obsessed with finding a lost city in the Amazon he thinks he brushed up against on his first expedition. He didn’t set out to be an explorer. A fine horseman and a good shot with a rifle, he dreams of being a decorated officer. As things stand, he complains to his wife Nina (Sienna Miller), he hasn’t earned a single medal. He’s sent to the Amazon to map out a border, in hopes of preventing a war that would be disastrous to the rubber trade, and as a good colonialist, the crown certainly can’t have that. Col. Percival Fawcett (Charlie Hunnam) is obsessed with finding a lost city in the Amazon in "The Lost City of Z." (Photo: Aidan Monaghan) Fawcett grudgingly accepts. These were not short tours of duty — such an expedition would take years, he’s told. But he has little choice, and if he’s successful not only will it bring him a measure of fame, it will restore his family name. (Evidently his father was a drinker.) RELATED: Richard Gere triumphant as a huckster in 'Norman' Soon (though not soon enough — the film drags at the beginning) he’s heading down the river into the jungle, accompanied by the loyal Henry Costin (Robert Pattinson, barely recognizable and outstanding). Here is where Gray really begins to shine. He immerses us in the wilderness right along with the explorers. Certainly there are suggestions of other films, like “Aguirre, the Wrath of God” or, as we wait expectantly for something bad to happen as the soldiers journey down the river, “Apocalypse Now.” But Gray’s eye is his own. We learn quickly enough of the dangers such a trip involves. Percy Fawcett (Charlie Hunnam, right) ventures into the Amazon in "The Lost City of Z." (Photo: Aidan Monaghan) Once they find the source of the river, Fawcett also finds shards of pottery and other artifacts that lead him to believe that there was once a city here, deep in the jungle. It’s heresy to the staid Empire, the notion that these “savages” could have created a civilization first. (There’s evidence the real-life Fawcett was not as enlightened as the film makes him out to be.) In a terrific scene, after Fawcett returns he gives a speech to the Royal Geographic Society in which he makes his claims and is shouted down, in the most genial British way imaginable, by doubters. He will return to the jungle, he declares (and Costin agrees to accompany him) and prove them all wrong. Edward Ashley (left) and Robert Pattinson star in "The Lost City of Z." (Photo: Aidan Monaghan) Thus is born an obsession. In another good scene Nina insists that she should accompany Fawcett on his next expedition, arguing that she is as qualified and fit as anyone. He won’t hear of it, of course, but Miller, who is excellent, makes it clear that Nina’s right. RELATED: Review: 'Truman' a 5-star look at friendship and life No such luck, however. It’s back to the Amazon for Fawcett. He will also lead men in battle, finally, when World War I breaks out. But his heart is in the jungle. Eventually the rest of him will be too, along with his oldest son Jack (Tom Holland), for whom the trip is a salve on the wounds of abandonment he’s felt over the years. Gray expertly shows the massiveness of these undertakings — the years of effort, the sacrifice and the sheer arrogance of man trying to tame nature — and also the spirit of adventure required of someone who knows nature can’t be tamed but can’t stop trying. Reach Goodykoontz at bill.goodykoontz@arizonarepublic.com. Facebook: facebook.com/GoodyOnFilm. Twitter: @goodyk. MORE AZCENTRAL ON SOCIAL: Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest 'The Lost City of Z,' 4 stars Director: James Gray. Cast: Charlie Hunnam, Robert Pattinson, Sienna Miller. Rating: PG-13 for violence, disturbing images, brief strong language and some nudity. Great ★★★★★ Good ★★★★ Fair ★★★ Bad ★★ Bomb ★ Read or Share this story: http://azc.cc/2pGs0ej