James Gray’s films are the public trace of a secret doctrine: don’t follow the words, follow the music; don’t believe your eyes, believe your heart. He’s a devoted, meticulous, fanatical realist whose clear, tough, physical dramas sublimate themselves into undertones and overtones, murmurs and intimations, reminiscences and dreams. His new film is “The Lost City of Z,” which is based on the nonfiction book by David Grann, a New Yorker staff writer, chronicling an early-twentieth-century British explorer’s ill-fated expedition in the Amazon jungle. The film opens today, and with its bluff, romantic resuscitation of the cinema’s classic adventure-tale genre and tone, it’s perhaps Gray’s most radical attempt at abstraction and displacement. It’s the story of a search that—it’s no spoiler to say—doesn’t come to fruition, a series of missions that don’t achieve their goals, and that nonetheless reverberate powerfully and enduringly with the force of its ideas and ideals. The action starts in 1905, when Major Percy Fawcett (Charlie Hunnam), serving to maintain British rule in Ireland, is summoned to London for a meeting. Though Percy (so I’ll call him, to distinguish the character from the historical person) is brave and capable, he’s the son of a dissolute father, and his lineage impedes his promotion both in the Army and in society. That may change, though—he’s dispatched by the Royal Geographical Society to lead an expedition into the Amazonian jungle bordering Bolivia and Brazil so that, by mapping the vague border, war between those countries can be avoided (and British economic interests can be served). Percy and his second-in-command, Henry Costin (Robert Pattinson), a more experienced explorer, discover the mission’s dangers and difficulties early on, as well as its mysterious wonders—such as the discovery of an opera company maintained in a rustic encampment run by a local rubber baron. The potentate supports the mission with the full force of his harsh reign—he offers Percy a crew of enslaved indigenous people, as well as rafts and other supplies. The heat proves overwhelming; Henry has a cut that won’t heal; the Amazon teems with fish that the explorers never manage to catch; a crew member mutinies; natives on shore attack the river-borne company with arrows; and the mission threatens to deteriorate into a merely onerous duty when an Indian slave (on whose knowledge of the terrain Percy depends, and whom, it’s worth noting, Percy treats respectfully, like a crew member) confides to Percy that there’s an ancient city in the jungle, somewhere past the source of the river. Sure enough, when they arrive at the source—a land that no Caucasian has previously reached—Percy finds shards of pottery, as well as elaborate tree carvings, that indicate vestiges of the lost city. Though the British government has cancelled the original purpose of the mission and Percy and his crew return to London, Percy is now possessed of a new purpose—to return to the jungle and find that city, which he dubs “Z” (pronouncing it “zed,” British-style). Percy’s purpose isn’t mainly archeological—it’s anthropological. He wants to overcome Eurocentric “bigotry” and prove that the indigenous people of the Amazon jungle, derided by other Geographical Society members as “savages,” display an intellectual and cultural sophistication equal to—and earlier than—that of European society. He undertakes a second mission—and it proves to be even more difficult than the first, but it also brings him into close contact with one native tribe that—while practicing cannibalism (albeit in a way that’s explained so as to minimize its horrors)—also displays an intricate civilization, as well as remarkable agricultural achievements. Yet this mission, too, is thwarted; Percy returns home unsatisfied. With the Great War now under way, he’s sent to lead troops into battle and, suffering a chlorine-gas attack by German forces, is rescued from the battlefield, hospitalized, and warned by doctors that his exploring days are done. (As it so happens, they’re not—and the final mission proves to be catastrophic.) There’s a surprising lightness to the scenes of the rigorous, dangerous expeditions, and that lightness is a crucial aspect of Gray’s artistry. He doesn’t minimize the hardships endured or the exertions required—but he approaches them with a modesty and a self-restraint that’s as much a matter of ethics as of aesthetics. From a personal perspective, filming to emphasize the difficulties and displeasures of the mission could only come off (as it does, for instance, in Werner Herzog’s films and in “Apocalypse Now”) as vanity, as a breast-beating boast of the difficulties that he himself endured (and to which he subjected his cast and crew) in order to make his film—as if that pride and that proclamation should win him any badge of honor over and above the specific merits of the film itself. Proceeding by touches, symbols, and synecdoches, by suggestions and implications, Gray’s modesty conveys, above all, an absence—the incommensurable abyss between the experience and the image, the realm of the unfilmable, or, rather, the no-longer-filmable. Gray’s films vibrate with echoes of what his experiences, his ideas, his feelings could be, cinematically—if the classical cinema that inspired them and nourished them were still in existence. It isn’t only grand adventure that, in Gray’s artistic purview, can’t be filmed with a classical fullness—it’s life itself. “The Yards” gathers the sounds and moods and tones of growing up in Queens, the experience of Gray watching classic movies and imagining his own experiences, his own emotions, embodied in those styles, knowing that they never could be. In “Two Lovers,” he conjures the sense of feeling simultaneously like an emotional titan trapped in a tiny apartment in a narrow life and like an emotionally stunted, damaged, unworldly-incapable monster—and does so within the constraint of a narrow, local cinematic style that reverberates nonetheless with the force of grand-scale classic melodramas. “The Immigrant” catches a family prehistory of grand passions that coincides with the operatic grandeur of the silent cinema; it’s a story of the furious struggles of an earlier generation that implanted Gray’s own immigrant family into America and implanted movies into Hollywood. There’s a music to Gray’s films, a music to his images; he’s essentially incapable of making a dull or untextured image, but, just like the term “style,” the word “music” is itself value-free. What kind of music do his images make? A poised, neoclassical music; Gray’s images have an untimely, exalted quietness, as if he were filming with violins and woodwinds and didn’t admit of electric instruments, though his subtler textures compete in the same arena and catch some of the same emotional jolt. In “Lost City,” glances—as between Percy and his wife, Nina (Sienna Miller), his intellectual associate and companion in his mission (but who isn’t allowed to accompany him physically into the jungle)—fill instants with vast swaths of time. They reverberate with an extraordinarily inward intimacy, in which action doesn’t seem to imply thought so much as it seems to accumulate around it. I’ve seen “The Lost City of Z” twice, and on first viewing I wished that the role of Major Percy Fawcett had been filled by its original claimant, Brad Pitt, whose element of ferocity and possession is his most distinguishing trait. On second viewing, though, I found Hunnam’s more moderate incarnation true to the movie’s sense of Fawcett’s own obsession: Percy isn’t an obsessive by nature, he’s an obsessive malgré lui. He didn’t choose to explore the Amazonian jungle, he was sent there to fulfill a mission that was neither of his choosing nor of his preference (he wanted to see combat). He fulfilled his mission dutifully, found his sense of purpose inflamed by the idea—and the slender evidence—of the lost city, and his desire to find it is fuelled by an intense humanistic rationalism. Percy’s devotion to discovering the Lost City of Z doesn’t dance with exotic visions of golden towers but treads with an unusual yet pedestrian sense of decency—he seeks not its glory but its workaday complexity, less El Dorado than an Amazonian Manchester. He’s looking to rediscover the traces of a vanished society in the hope of overturning facile hierarchies and replacing them with respect, honor, and wonder at the achievements of distant peoples in the distant past—a society that, for all its cruelty and ferocity, embodies secrets and experiences that are lost to modernity. (Like “The Immigrant,” “The Lost City of Z” features one of the greatest last shots in the recent cinema—and this one captures those contradictions with a majestically imaginative gesture.) The mission involves chaos, turmoil, trouble—but Percy’s vision, his efforts, and his reports are models of poise, purpose, and precision. Gray’s subject is the pursuit of a truer, better self, one that’s imbued with and inspired by the colossal achievements of the past, a self-accomplishment that’s distinguished from the petty rounds of daily negotiations and drawing-room squabbles. As alluring as the fleeting fragments of inspiration may be, they’re subordinate to the purpose of the great, big, perfected, enduring—and impossible—work. In Gray’s films—as in the drama of “The Lost City of Z” itself—the true creation is neither the effort nor the result: it’s the purity of the emotion and the clarity of the idea.