A purveyor of earnest, New York-set chamber dramas, writer-director James Gray does not immediately seem like a filmmaker who could, or would, craft a true epic. His elegant and underseen 2013 period piece The Immigrant perhaps suggested that his purview was widening. But nothing on his résumé indicated that he was capable of something on the scale of The Lost City of Z, his rich and glorious adaptation of David Grann’s excellent nonfiction book about Amazonian exploration in the early 20th century. (Opening April 14.) And yet he pulls it off—more than pulls it off—in staggeringly artful fashion. An enveloping meditation on obsession and manhood, The Lost City of Z is one of the best films released so far this year. Gray has made an old-fashioned epic that trembles and sighs, illuminates and moves with contemporary insight. Telling the story of Percy Fawcett, a respected but undecorated British military officer who found fame, admiration, and eventual doom in his treks into the Bolivian Amazon, The Lost City of Z could have been a troublingly fawning bit of colonial nostalgia. But Gray is careful to highlight the noxious entitlement that guided Fawcett and his fellow gentlemen explorers, men who thought that inhabited places could be discovered, as if something did not fully exist until a white man had gazed upon it. But as Fawcett’s quixotic mission to find the fabled city of the title gradually becomes something less imperial and more deeply personal, his Edwardian fixation on his honor evolves into an almost religious ardor. In that way, The Lost City of Z swells to rather grand proportions; at its most searching and profound, the film might be about nothing less than the quest for the meaning of life. It might be. Or it might just be a thrilling and gorgeously rendered adventure-tragedy. Fawcett is played by Charlie Hunnam, an actor whom I’ve perhaps unfairly dismissed until now. Here he gives as magnetic a leading-man turn as I’ve seen in some time, capturing Fawcett’s decency, his piousness, and his arrogance with towering conviction. He’s well matched by a laconic but present Robert Pattinson as Fawcett’s trusty sidekick, and by Sienna Miller, who plays Fawcett’s wife, Nina. Miller has had a years-long run of playing Great Men's wives and girlfriends, from American Sniper to Foxcatcher to Burnt to Live by Night. In Lost City of Z, at least, she’s given something to do and say. Gray finds ways to grant Nina agency despite the oppression suffered by women—even those of status—of her era. Miller seizes that opportunity with relish, especially in the film’s achingly lovely final scene. Someone please give her a lead role already. These fine performances (Tom Holland, young Spider-Man himself, is also quite good as Fawcett’s son Jack) are housed in a construction of boggling technical mastery. Working with cinematographer Darius Khondji and shooting on lush, grainy 35-millimeter film, Gray favors thoughtful composition over flashy camerawork. The Lost City of Z is staid and sincere, which allows room for the jungle, in all its danger and allure, to truly breathe. As it regards this looming green tangle, the film hums with fear and reverence. By The Lost City of Z’s stunning penultimate scene, Gray, Khondji, and composer Christopher Spelman have conjured up a heady mix of ecstasy and mania, a fevered manifestation of Fawcett’s psychology, his unrelenting drive, his consuming hunger. This is heavy, serious, nearly metaphysical stuff, but Gray handles it all deftly. Weighty and solemn as its themes may be, The Lost City of Z is Gray’s most agile, most graceful film. It’s leavened by its humanity—and, in the end, by a kind of agnostic spirituality. Movies about obsession can be exhausting; think of all the fuzzy-brain itch of Zodiac or Zero Dark Thirty. (Why all the Zs in obsession movie titles?) There are certainly moments in The Lost City of Z when Fawcett’s suicidal, vainglorious ambition is frustrating, and the values expressed in the film—about masculinity in particular—are, in their way, infuriating. But Gray’s film is only about these notions, rather than acting as a supportive vessel for them. Instead of making the macho, unthinking epic that a lesser director could have drawn out of this material, Gray has located something more compassionate; he’s found a vein of introspection and philosophy that gives The Lost City of Z a bracing universality. Yes, the film is the specific story of one man gone mad with visions of a hidden place. But it’s also about the ways people yearn for a sense of purpose and definition, how we can sabotage our lives in our attempts to ennoble them. It’s about human folly—the sad and familiar and beautiful tragedy of it. Gray’s film is breathtaking in its scope, but all the more remarkable for how intimate it feels, how oddly relatable. We may not have hacked our way into the jungle in search of ourselves, but we’ve all probably taken some kind of journey into the unknown, hoping to reemerge fuller, more understood, more alive. Which is, as it happens, quite similar to how I felt, and I hope you’ll feel, when the closing credits of this immersive and marvelous film finally rolled.