Robin Clifford Laura Clifford Percival Fawcett (Charlie Hunnam) was a well-decorated officer in the British army who, by the elite, was considered “unfortunate in his choice of ancestors.” But, he was a highly regarded explorer and took the daunting task, commissioned by the Royal Geographic Society, of exploring and mapping the uncharted land of Bolivia. There, he finds signs of an advanced, past civilization and becomes obsessed with discovering “The Lost City of Z.” Robin: Yet another historical biopic of a hitherto unknown figure comes to us with the story of soldier, explorer, surveyor and advanced thinker Percy Fawcett. He accepts the Bolivia mission and is joined by fellow explorer Henry Costin (Robert Pattinson) in the tough trek. Braving horrid conditions, disease, hunger and hostile natives, the explorers come upon pottery shards and signs of civilization that should not be there. When Fawcett returns home to RGS acclaim, and his stoic, stand-by-her-man wife, Nina (Sienna Miller), he is convinced that he was on the brink of finding the legendary lost city “of gold and maize.” Other expeditions ensue, then Archduke Ferdinand is assassinated and Fawcett’s obsession to find the mythical place is put on hold by the Great War. It all ramps up again following the war, culminating with Fawcett and his grown son, Jack (Tom Holland), making the final push in their adventure of discovery. Writer-director James Gray adapts the book by David Grann and tells of a grueling set of arduous and dangerous adventures to fulfill one man’s quest for truth and science. The film is divided in chapters with Fawcett leaving his wife for extended periods of time, like years. Somehow, Nina, every time he returns from South America, presents him with a new-born baby. There are other plays with the film’s timeline that are there more to push the story forward than to make real sense. The film’s leads are well played by Hunnam, Miller and Pattinson and gather sympathy and give strength to their characters. The episodic nature of the storytelling harkens back to the days when adventurers were strong, noble types who are hyper aware the land and its people. It is kind of like Indiana Jones without the bullwhip, stolen idols and Nazi conspiracy and all the hard work. I give it a B.