When British explorer Percy Fawcett disappeared into the Brazilian jungle in 1925, he was an international celebrity. With newspapers around the word -- including The Times-Picayune in New Orleans -- carrying his dispatches from the uncharted wilds of South America, he had become a rugged, adventurous object of public fascination. Even nearly 100 years later, it's not hard to see the allure. That would be true even if writer-director James Gray's "The Lost City of Z" didn't do such an effective job of reviving Fawcett's ghost -- and his spirit of adventure. That it does such a good job of it only makes it that much easier to fall in love with the Fawcett legacy. Here's a guy who was the closest thing the world had to Indiana Jones until -- well, Indiana Jones. That being said, "The Lost City of Z" doesn't exactly play like an Indiana Jones film. It's a bit-too old-fashioned for that. It's well-stocked with unforgiving jungles and tribes of primitive natives suspicious of outsiders, but Gray's film plays more like a cross between "Heart of Darkness" and a Merchant-Ivory film than it does like "Raiders of the Lost Ark." Nothing against "Raiders," but that's a good thing. After all, the exploits of Percy Fawcett were no "Jungle Cruise" (piranhas notwithstanding), and so, fittingly, neither is "The Lost City of Z." There's something deeper at work here, an unstated exploration of mankind's mothlike attraction to the flame of adventure, of discovery and -- perhaps -- the hope that such things can bring a degree of immortality. To that extent, "The Lost World of Z" is a something of a throwback film, but that's not to say it feels dated or stylistically stale. Rather, It's old-fashioned in the sense that it's a thoughtful and richly appointed affair that is more interested in character development than visual effects. It also takes its own time getting to its eventual destination -- which is different than saying it dawdles. Grey ("The Immigrant," "We Own the Night") is too firmly in control of his movie for that. The action here moves along nicely, but it never feels rushed. Rather, "The Lost City of Z" slows just enough to give audiences an opportunity to become seduced by the perilous beauty of the Amazon jungle -- and in much the same way it seduced Fawcett. At the outset of his first trip, a 1906 map-making expedition to the then-uncharted border of Brazil and Bolivia for the Royal Geographic Society, Fawcett was less than thrilled with the assignment. A still-young military man eager to distinguish himself, he was worried his assignment to South America -- in addition to taking him away from his wife and young son -- would also tie him up for a year or more without contributing any medals to the front of his dress uniform. Once there, though, he fell in love with the place, or at least with the rumors of a lost city obscured somewhere by the all-consuming jungle. At once, he became obsessed with finding that city, which he envisioned as his own Machu Picchu. He called it "Zed," in the English fashion. Determined to find it, even in the face of great ridicule from his Royal Society peers -- to say nothing of the strain it put on his personal life with his growing family -- he would return repeatedly until that fateful 1925 expedition. (In reality, he returned six times; Gray's film, for the sake of brevity, focuses largely on just three of those expeditions.) In "The Lost City of Z," Fawcett is portrayed by Charlie Hunnam, who is suitably dashing for the role, but not too pretty or soft so as to feel overly "Hollywood." His performance as Fawcett is so easy, so natural, that it never really feels like a performance at all. He's accompanied for much of the movie by a nearly unrecognizable Robert Pattinson, whose performance here should go a long way toward proving he's far more than those "Twilight" movies with which his name is still synonymous. The real star here, though, is that brutal, untamed jungle, and the way it beckons to the imagination. It's beautiful but deadly, alluring but foreboding and -- just as it did when Fawcett was sending his dispatches to newspapers around the world -- it's a reminder that there is room for real adventure out there in this largely tamed world. And that's exactly what "The Lost City of Z" is: an adventure -- a wonderful, old-school adventure, the likes of which we don't see enough of any more. Lost cities notwithstanding, that makes it a kind of treasure all its own. ___________ THE LOST CITY OF Z 4 stars, out of 5 Snapshot: A historical action-adventure about real-life British explorer Percy Fawcett, who disappeared in 1925 while on an Amazonian expedition to find a mythical lost city with which he is obsessed. : Charlie Hunnam, Robert Pattinson, Sienna Miller, Tom Holland, Angus Macfayden.: James Gray.: PG-13, for violence, disturbing images, brief strong language and some nudity.: 2 hours 30 minutes.