“The Lost City of Z” is a real find. Director James Gray, who impressed four years ago with “The Immigrant,” returns to form with this new historical drama that both entertains and enlightens. "The Lost City of Z" tells the incredible true story of British explorer Percy Fawcett (Charlie Hunnam), who journeys into the Amazon at the dawn of the 20th century and discovers evidence of a previously unknown, advanced civilization. (Amazon Studios/Youtube) Shot in 35 mm, Gray’s film feels as though it’s from another, more meticulous era in Hollywood. It begins in the early 1900s with the introduction of an ambitious and largely unadorned Col. Percy Fawcett (Charlie Hunnam). At the behest of the Royal Geographic Society, Fawcett agrees to take on a mission to help clear his family name. Fawcett teams up with Corporal Henry Costin (Robert Pattinson) on a journey to Bolivia to survey and map its eastern border — in an attempt to prevent war (and thus a lesser supply of rubber). Jessica Chastain lifts ‘The Zookeeper’s Wife’ — movie review Upon arriving in South America, Fawcett plunges into the rainforests to chart the country, while his wife, Nina (Sienna Miller), awaits his return in Great Britain. But a speedy journey home is not guaranteed, for Fawcett battles the elements during his mapping expedition. Robert Pattinson as Corporal Henry Costin in "The Lost City of Z" (2016). (Plan B/Youtube) Once back in England with his findings, Fawcett must face the wrath of bigoted Englishmen who refuse to believe an ancient city may have existed in the Amazon, thus ostensibly glorifying the “inferior.” Fawcett then makes it his life’s mission to seek out this lost city, which he calls Zed. He vows to return — and certainly does so, although a major World War interrupts his cause. Aside from the captivating cinematography, the narrative is adventurous and existential. Not only does it examine the ethos of the early 20th century — including wartime — it also surveys humanity as a whole. It aims to dispel a superiority complex but manages to stay bold and progressive throughout. Controversial 'Assignment' is a bore: movie review Charlie Hunnam stars as Colonel Percy Fawcett in James Gray's historical drama. (Plan B/Youtube) Hunnam, Pattinson, Miller and Tom Holland (who plays the eldest Fawcett son) all do an admirable job acting out this script. But the film's most memorable qualities emanate from Gray’s precise direction and Darius Khondji’s poetic cinematography. Altogether, “The Lost City of Z,” which headlined the New York Film Festival last year, is a true exploration of humanity — at its finest and in its deepest, most cavernous pits.