Cast: Charlie Hunnam, Robert Pattinson, Sienna Miller, Tom Holland, Angus MacFadyen, Edward Ashley, Clive Francis, Ian McDiarmid, Franco Nero Writer/Director: James Gray (Two Lovers, The Immigrant, The Yards and more) Genre: Drama, Adventure Rated PG-13 Plot: In 1906, Major Percy Fawcett (Charlie Hunnam) is commissioned to go to the Amazonia area of South America to determine the proper borders between Brazil and Bolivia, but while down there, he hears tales and finds proof of a civilization possibly older than Europe. Along with his trusted aide-de-camp Henry Costin (Robert Pattinson), they return to the area a few years later, only to have their second expedition troubled with problems. WWI hits and Fawcett goes to the trenches in France, but in 1924, he and his now grown son Jack (Tom Holland) make one more effort to find the city of gold that he’s called “Z.” Based on David Grann’s 2009 non-fiction book of the same name, the new film by James Gray is quite an amazing achievement, and considering some of his previous films--and how long he’s been working on this one--that is saying something. It’s an amazing true-life adventure from the first quarter of the 20th Century where explorers were trying to discover new unexplored parts of the world, and it follows the obsession of one man at finding proof of an ancient civilization in the Amazonia area of South America. This obsession drives him close to the brink of disaster a number of times. I first saw this as the closing night film at last year’s New York Film Festival, but seeing it again more recently really helped me to focus on what a strong film this is in terms of drama, exciting adventure and tension as we watch Hunnam’s character trying to prove a controversial theory that there was civilization in South America hundreds of years ago. Fawcett’s trip brings him together with Angus MacFadyen as James Murray, a lofty fellow explorer who ends up being more of a liability, basically sabotaging their second attempt to find the lost city. If the movie weren’t already impressive for Gray’s ability to create the troubles faced by Fawcett and his men on the Amazon, he then creates a full-on WWI battle in the trenches leading into the film’s third act when Fawcett reconciles with his now teen son Jack (played by Spider-Man: Homecoming’s Tom Holland), and the two of them go off on a third mission to find proof of “Z.” As much as this film is Hunnam’s, it’s amazing what Sienna Miller brings to their scenes together, and she really is the heart of film in terms of the emotional core of what it’s like for Fawcett to be so obsessed with his discovery that he leaves his wife alone with their kids, not once or twice, but three times. Then of course, when Percy and Jack don’t return, she’s the one who keeps the hope that they’re still alive. This is another gorgeous film from Gray. It's one that keeps you enthralled with Fawcett’s journey even during the slower parts of this nearly 2 ½ hour film. The score by Christopher Spelman really does a lot to enhance the amazing production value Gray’s able to get out of the Amazon jungle. The Lost City of Z is a great step forward in Gray’s career, and hopefully, people will give it a chance to help him get other projects like this one made. After opening in New York and L.A. on Friday, The Lost City of Z is scheduled to open “nationwide” starting April 21. Festivals, Series and Repertory: I’m sure there’s lots of repertory stuff going on in the New York area this weekend, but the biggest news will be the reopening of Manhattan’s QUAD CINEMA on Friday after being closed for well over a year for renovations. Now owned by Cohen Media Group with Film Comment’s Gavin Smith and the IFC Center’s Christopher Wells acting as programming execs, I have a feeling the new Quad will not be the theater where filmmakers dump their “four wall” movies i.e. movies that no one will distribute, so they pay for the theater to show the movie for a week. (It’s something the Quad was quite famous for before its new owners took over.) Most of my readers already know my allegiance to my neighborhood theater, the Metrograph, but I have to give props to what the Quad is doing in terms of premiering new independent and foreign films as well as adding to the already-great repertory cinema community in New York City. Seriously, seeing so many young people go out to see old movies really makes me quite delighted and the more the merrier, if you ask me. (The Quad’s repertory program will begin with Busby Berkeley’s 1943 movie The Gang’s All Here, a movie that was the first repertory film shown at the Quad when it was rereleased all the way back in 1972! It’s part of their reopening “Quadrophilia” program, featuring other films that have played at the theater in its 45-year history. (Filmmaker John Sayles will be there for screenings of City of Hope and Return of the Secaucus Seven on Saturday, April 22, but I'm looking forward to The Who's Quadrophenia myself.) Speaking of repertory, James Gray and the Metrograph, the latter will be holding a retrospective of Gray’s five previous films, all of them starring Joaquin Phoenix, this coming weekend. They’ll also be holding a special screening of Lost City of Z with Gray in attendance tonight!