Imitation: It's what kid brothers do. And if you're the big brother, you've really got no choice but to be flattered by it, as irritating as it might be. So, Pixar: Be flattered. DreamWorks Animation just wants to be like you. That's really the only way to explain the shameless Pixar imitation that DreamWorks does in its newest film, "The Boss Baby," which wears its "Toy Story" inspiration on its bib. That starts with its production design -- which can best be described as kitschy 1950s suburban idyll -- and which goes so far as to include a brief appearance of a so-familiar-it-might-be-litigable toy T-rex. By the time it busts out its Mary Poppins joke, it's pretty evident that director Tom McGrath ("Madagascar") has abandoned all pretense. Heck, he probably even wants viewers to mistake his movie for a movie by the Disney-owned Pixar. But here's the thing: While "The Boss Baby" loses points for so brazenly coopting the Pixar aesthetic, at least it's working to imitate the best in the business. And while McGrath's film certainly doesn't rank up there with "Toy Story 2," "Up" or "Wall-E," it actually does a better job of imitating Pixar than some more recent Pixar films have. (Looking at you, "Cars 2" and "Monsters University.") That is to say, it is a reasonably clever, fairly high-concept 'toon that boasts a satisfying emotional component. Given its propensity for poopy-doody-hiney jokes, kids will like it even if they miss the film's lesson about the value of siblings. More importantly, it's the kind of film parents can, for the most part, enjoy right along with them. The whole thing is inspired by the picture book of the same name by Marla Frazee. The basic setup: An imaginative 7-year-old named Tim has his perfect life shattered when his mother and father (voiced by Lisa Kudrow and Jimmy Kimmel) reveal he's going to be a big brother. They try to make it sound great, but he's not so sure. Tim's skepticism is confirmed when the new baby arrives and immediately monopolizes his parents' time. Tim's heartfelt question, with which any big brother or big sister will sympathize: "What about me?" To make matters worse, Tim quickly learns his new baby brother isn't a normal baby at all. He's actually a secret agent -- one who can walk, talk and wears a suit -- in a great, global cuteness war between babies and puppies. Naturally, Tim's parents don't believe him. This baby (who is voiced, in a sort of "Family Guy" twist, by Alec Baldwin) is a tricksy one that way. The only way Tim can get rid of him, he learns, is if he helps the little rug rat complete his mission. And so off they go, big brother and little brother, through a series of adventures in the hopes of defeating the puppy scourge once and for all. The big joke, of course, is that nearly the whole movie is one big fantasy, playing out in the overactive imagination of 7-year-old Tim as he struggles with acute pangs of sibling rivalry. There's a fine line there for McGrath and company to walk, as they must ensure the whole thing doesn't lose its emotional grounding amid the pull-out-the-stops fantasy, but they walk it nicely. Regardless, it doesn't take a genius to see where the story is headed. As they go about their adventuring, Tim and his new brother bond. By the time it's all done, the former adversaries have gained a new respect for one another. Maybe even something approaching brotherly love. Even if it's all pretty predictable and derivative stuff -- and even if it goes on maybe 10 minutes longer than it should -- it still hits an emotional sweet spot that will have moviegoers leaving the theater with a smile and thinking, "You know, that was better than I thought." Granted, that's not exactly the highest praise. But a little brother will take what a little brother can get. ___________ THE BOSS BABY 3 stars, out of 5 Snapshot: Based on the picture book by Marla Frazee, it's an animated comedy about a 7-year-old boy who learns that his new baby brother isn't a regular kid at all, but a secret agent in a cuteness war between puppies and babies. : Miles Christopher Bakshi, Tobey Maguire, Alec Baldwin, Steve Buscemi, Jimmy Kimmel, Lisa Kudrow.: Tom McGrath.: PG, for some mild rude humor.: 1 hour 37 minutes.