The Boss Baby (U, 97mins) Director: Tom McGrath Voices: Alec Baldwin, Steve Buscemi, Lisa Kudrow Mum and Dad become strung-out slaves to the bawling bairn and siblings don’t get a look in. Which is why all ages should relate to the immensely entertaining animation The Boss Baby. It inventively explores the emotional complications and chaos that ensue with a new arrival, from the perspective of the put out seven-year-old brother, Tim (voiced by Miles Bakshi). In the same way cowboy Woody in Toy Story struggled to adjust to new toy Buzz Lightyear and his sudden loss of status, Tim decides “there is not enough love for the two of us” and plots to have Boss Baby dispatched to the great big baby factory in the sky. Sounds cruel? Well it isn’t, because the twist is that there really is a big baby factory in the sky and the suit-wearing Boss Baby (we never learn his real name) works in middle management and wants to return there as soon as possible to get promoted. First, however, he must fulfil a vital mission on terra firma and he and Tim become reluctant collaborators. Only Tim knows Boss Baby’s secret: as in the Toy Story movies, Boss Baby comes to life behind the back of his “owners” for whom he is an adorable if tantrum-prone mite. The no-nonsense “businessbaby” is voiced to perfection by Alec Baldwin at his raspy, commanding, best. Think wearing a large nappy might dent his authority? Think again. “Astronauts and Nascar drivers wear nappies,” growls Boss Baby. The film is inspired by a picture book by Marla Frazee and it’s fun watching the ridiculous character conform to baby-like behaviour while strategising and writing memos. For his part, Tim is an endearing live-wire with an over-active imagination allowing for some charmingly retro animation sequences, in the Bugs Bunny vein, which depict Tim’s flights of fancy. Indeed, it’s possible the whole story is being dreamt up inside the frustrated youngster’s head. It’s fast-paced, witty and, like Toy Story, deals with love and replacement, albeit without the same depth of characterisation. Boss Baby’s mission is to scupper the launch of a super-adorable new puppy from pet company PuppyCo, the latest salvo in a battle for the affection of human beings. “Babies aren’t getting as much love as they used to,” explains Boss Baby. Can Boss Baby and Tim infiltrate PuppyCo and close down the operation before a sinister executive (Steve Buscemi) hits the launch button? Directed by Tom McGrath, who made the Madagascar movies, the picture combines energetic set-pieces with clever plotting, good jokes and plenty of heart. Best of all, for a film about a protagonist in nappies, is the welcome absence of poop jokes.