CLASH ★★★★ (M) 97 minutes. Australian Centre for the Moving Image, until Thursday, April 6. Set entirely inside an increasingly crowded police paddy wagon moving through the tumultuous streets of Cairo, Clash manages to convey – with ferocious clamour and fearful failing – the physical reality of power changing hands. Set in 2013, Mohamed Diab's unnerving drama takes place in the days following the military's removal of the Muslim Brotherhood government of Mohamed Morsi. Journalists, rival supporters, teenagers, and functionaries are amongst those incarcerated together, and part of the film's embittered outlook stems from the fact that just two years prior the bitter adversaries were united in bringing down the corrupt regime of Hosni Mubarak. Inside they argue, cajole and compare connections that might get them out, while outside the barred windows – with masterful staging – increasingly brutal large-scale riots unfold. "When I get out of here I'll head to Syria," swears one man, and whatever personal understanding might take shape, the movie is clear that Egypt is a country divided without hope of genuine reconciliation. CM SHARE Share on Facebook SHARE Share on Twitter TWEET Link Scene from The Boss Baby Photo: DreamWorks Animation BROKEN TRAIL: WALTER HILL IN THE 1970s (melbournecinematheque.org). Australian Centre for the Moving Image, Wednesday, April 5. One way to look at the long and sometimes contradictory career of screenwriter turned director Walter Hill, which takes in The Warriors, 48 Hrs, and the underrated Wild Bill amongst two dozen features, is to view his first two films as marker points. Both 1975's Hard Times and 1978's The Driver (★★★½, M, 91 minutes) are screening at the Melbourne Cinematheque, and the latter is a coolly appreciated study of male competitiveness (both externally and internally) delivered with the punctuation of screeching tyres and a reserve worthy of Jean-Pierre Melville. Ryan O'Neal is the Los Angeles getaway driver (the film is an explicit inspiration for Nicolas Winding Refn's Drive) whose exploits attract a recklessly obsessive police detective (Bruce Dern). "I really like chasing you," the latter cockily tells the former, a great compliment in Hill's world, and the two men form an oblique triangle with Isabelle Adjani's professional accomplice. Laced with the nomenclature of westerns but bereft of back story, the movie is stripped down to its coiled momentum. CM THE BOSS BABY ★★½ (G) 97 minutes. Now screening. Children's animation has long had the lucrative knack of pitching knowing gags to parents at a pitch their offspring can't hear, but The Boss Baby may well be a film for adults masquerading as a children's flick. There's an offbeat tone to the movie – personified by a gorgeously assembled pastel fantasia sequence set in a baby-making factory versus a family having their memories of a child erased – that verges on the disquieting. The selling point is Alec Baldwin voicing a corporate baby, with a bizarre mythology about a formula that rescinds ageing and allegiance to the company, who parachutes into a suburban family whose parents do marketing for the babies great rivals: puppies. The suit-wearing bub, who is a shill for corporate America, clashes with and then co-operates with his seven-year-old brother, but the script by Michael McCullers (Baby Mama) keeps returning to the idea that love is in finite supply, and that children might miss out. There's a pleasing patter and tidy chase sequences, but it may leave you weirded out. CM