★★★★ The title character of this animated comedy has a lot more in common with Donald Trump than just his tiny hands. Voiced by Alec Baldwin, whose spot-on Trump impression drew great acclaim on Saturday Night Live, The Boss Baby utters Trump’s signature catchphrase and spouts business platitudes. Though to compare the two in terms of their infant-like temperament would be decidedly unfair to at least one of them. Director: Tom McGrath Starring: Alec Baldwin, Miles Christopher Bakshi, Tobey Maguire, Jimmy Kimmel, Lisa Kudrow, Steve Buscemi, ViviAnn Yee Genre: Animation / Comedy Country: USA Release date: 7 April, 2017 Cert: U Running time: 97 mins The filmmakers, including director Tom McGrath (Madagascar), have dismissed the comparisons as “an extra weird coincidence”. Though a brief snatch of the theme from The Apprentice suggests it’s one they are willing to lean into. The actual plot, loosely based on a 2010 children’s book by Marla Frazee, sees hyper-imaginative seven year-old Tim Templeton (voiced by Miles Christopher Bakshi) concocting an elaborate fantasy when his loving parents (Lisa Kudrow and Jimmy Kimmel) inform him that he’s going to have a baby brother. Anxious about being replaced in his parents’ affections, Tim sees the suit-wearing, briefcase-carrying Boss Baby (Baldwin) – who talks when his parents aren’t in earshot – as a demanding menace with a sinister agenda. However, when he discovers Boss Baby’s true mission – involving a plot against baby-making company BabyCorp by rival outfit PuppyCo – he agrees to help him in his quest, believing he’ll return to his BabyCorp management position once he completes his goal. Witty dialogue and strong messages If they gave out Oscars for voice performances, Baldwin would surely be in the running for his pitch-perfect turn as Boss Baby. He nails every line with his smooth-yet-cutting delivery and even gets to play on one of his most famous roles, barking “cookies are for closers!” during a meeting with other babies. The animation is extremely appealing throughout, especially when playing around with other cartoon styles to illustrate Tim’s Calvin-and-Hobbes-like fantasy adventures. This is also yet another recent film where the 3D effects are put to excellent use, particularly during the frenetic first act, where objects frequently get hurled out of the screen. McGrath’s fast-paced direction delivers a steady stream of endlessly inventive gags, both verbal and visual (BabyCorp’s baby-making factory line is an inspired early set-piece). The witty dialogue, meanwhile, ensures there are just as many jokes for adults as there are for kids (“Ugh! The people of Long Island have a lot to learn about making an Ice Tea”). There are plenty of amusing references to some decidedly diverse sources (the S.W.A.T. TV series, The Six Million Dollar Man), as well as some very funny throwaway moments, such as Boss Baby landing in the fist-to-the-ground superhero pose when they visit BabyCorp. The script doesn’t quite deliver the emotional sucker-punch perfected by the Pixar movies. But it still musters a series of strong, relatable messages about replacement anxiety, sibling rivalry and the importance of family. Much like the recent baby-themed animated movie Storks, The Boss Baby transcends its ridiculous-seeming premise (and misleading trailers) to deliver an enjoyable family comedy that’s as delightful as it is inventive. Even the fart jokes are adorable.