Even with the 41st annual Cleveland International Film Festival (continuing through April 9) enjoying a big initial weekend at Tower City Cinemas and a few other venues, Hollywood manages to end the first quarter of 2017 with an assortment of new releases. Here are brief reviews of a quartet of movies opening today in northeast Ohio: "Ghost in the Shell": From the potential blockbuster vein comes this Scarlett Johansson starrer, based on Mamoru Oshii's 1995 animated take on the same story and, apparently, some other quite nifty Japanese stuff that fans of this punky genre readily acknowledge and take very seriously. Please don't count me among them. I mean, its basic concept details how technology ultimately will destroy civilization as we know it, but isn't cinema already overdosing on such sci-fi hokum? Certainly, the film's futuristic production design, especially its nightly big-city skyline, becomes a welcome and constant marvel. However, just another story of robotics melding with humans grows old quickly amidst constant ass-kicking and gloom-and-doom dialogue between the ever-haunted lead and an assortment of henchmen and foes alike. If anyone wants to know, the standout of the bunch is the weary head cop, played nicely Columbo-like by Japanese cultural icon "Beat" Takeshi Kitano. Starring Scarlett Johansson, Michael Pitt, Pilou Asbaek, and "Beat" Takeshi Kitano. Rated PG-13: intense sequences of sci-fi violence, suggestive content and some disturbing images; 1:46; $ $ and 1/2 out of $5. "The Boss Baby": This silly piece of full-length animation might owe a bow to Japanese cinema itself since all of its characters, including the titular brat, are drawn with really huge eyes. Regardless, that's about as close as it gets to artful Asian anime. Instead, this book-based prattle becomes an eye-rolling assortment of kid antics and butt-related sight gags (in fact, maybe a world's record worth of them). Of course, the voice of "Boss," comes from Alec Baldwin, mostly mimicking a re-do of Jack Donaghy, his network bigwig role that carried him to a pair of Emmy Awards on "30 Rock." Also on board are talk-show host Jimmy Kimmel and Lisa Kudrow, themselves sounding more like clueless Dad and Mom to the newborn and envious big brother Tim (Miles Christopher Bakshi) than actual caring parents. Tobey Maguire, voicing the grown-up Tim, does a decent job as narrator, but the music is as uneven as the rest of it. It all begins well enough with Fred Astaire's inspired "Cheek to Cheek," then offers various and too many nods to the Beatles' "Blackbird," and concludes with a version of "What the World Needs Now (Is Love)" from someone named Missi Hale instead of the great Jackie DeShannon. That being said, the granddaughters seemed to enjoy much of it, particularly the just-turned 6-year-old who claimed she "loved it." Little boss sister, who became a 3-year-old four days later, tagged along for her initial trip to a movie theater and probably liked the popcorn even more. Starring the voices of Alec Baldwin, Steve Buscemi, Lisa Kudrow, Jimmy Kimmel, Miles Christopher Bakshi, and Tobey Maguire. Rated PG: some mild rude humor; 1:37; $ $ out of $5. "T2 Trainspotting": Flashbacks, a keen sense of longing for the bad ol', good ol' days of youth, and even some of the nastiness that marked the shocking original all return in this long-awaited sequel from gifted director Danny Boyle. Thankfully, so do those four great chaps from Boyle's 1996 "Trainspotting": Renton (Ewan McGregor), Sick Boy (Jonny Lee Miller), Spud (Ewan Bremner), and full-fledged psycho Begbie (Robert Carlyle). All are now well into their '40s, reunited in an ever-changing Edinburgh, and still chasing their own individual joys of living as opposed to simply "choosing life." That means, drugs, some sex and a lot of pulse-pounding sounds, which all likely will suggest more to those of us who went ga-ga over their first grand go-round than to movie-goers making Boyle's wild Scottish scene for the first time. Starring Ewan McGregor, Jonny Lee Miller, Robert Carlyle, Ewen Bremner, Anjela Nedyalkova, and Kelly MacDonald. Rated R: drug use, language throughout, strong sexual content, graphic nudity and some violence; 1:58; $ $ $ and 1/2 out of $5. "Land of Mine": This 2016 Oscar nominee (for Best Foreign Language Film), a Danish production, has been around a while, having enjoyed its world premiere way back in September 2015 at the 40th Toronto International Film Festival. Still, it probably remains the week's most consistent offering with its powerful post-WWII story of German prisoners, most of them still in their teens, being forced to clear the Denmark coast of thousands of land mines left buried in the sand by Nazi occupiers. Remember how you felt observing the early moments of "The Hurt Locker," itself a bomb-detonating masterpiece (and 2008 Oscar-winner)? This one raises the melodramatic bar even higher. Can you really stand to watch? Starring Roland Muller, Louis Hofmann, and Oskar Belton. Rated R: violence, some grisly images and language; 1:41; $ $ $ $ out of $5. (Look for John M. Urbancich's ratings on other recent releases at JMUvies.com.)