Our Review Movie: THE BOSS BABY Rating: PG, some mild rude humor Length: 1:37 Jeanne: A bossy baby wearing a suit and tie, carrying a briefcase, is a part made in heaven for the incomparable Alec Baldwin. "The Boss Baby" wouldn't be nearly as hilarious as it is without him! In the world of "The Boss Baby", babies fall into two categories: a) families, b) management. Boss Baby (Baldwin), of course, fits right in at Baby Corps., the corporation responsible for finding out what parents and babies want. Boss Baby has no desire to be part of a family. He longs to follow in the footsteps of Super, Big Fat Boss Baby or Super, Colossal, Big Fat Boss Baby, and gain control of the corner office and all of the perks of being the CEO of Baby Corps. But first he must conclude his market research by going into the home of seven-year-old Tim (voiced by Miles Bakshi) and his parents (voiced by Lisa Kudrow and Jimmy Kimmel), who both work for Francis E. Francis (voiced by Steve Buscemi). He's the president of Puppy Co., who has created the adorable Forever Puppy to replace real babies in homes all over the world. The best-selling picture book by Marla Frazee inspired DreamWorks Animation to create this family comedy about sibling rivalry and the importance of family. Narrated by Toby Maguire, "The Boss Baby" is truly entertaining for everyone. The irony of a family's new baby arriving by taxi dressed in business attire and possessing Baldwin's unmistakable voice is not lost on the adults in the audience, and the kids will love it. Like most seven-year-olds who has had the undivided attention of his parents, Tim is not particularly thrilled with the new addition, and Boss Baby couldn't care less about him. He just wants to fulfill his mission and return to Baby Corps. To their chagrin, Tim and Boss Baby discover the villainous plot of Francis E. Francis, and they must work together to save their parents. Baldwin is totally hysterical as the man/baby. He is gifted with the perfect voice and demeanor to play this crazy baby. When Tim and Boss Baby sneak aboard a flight bound for Vegas filled with Elvis impersonators, it is only fitting that Boss Baby takes over the empty first class section with Tim, claiming that he and Tim are the pilot's children. The script by Michael McCullers is loaded with clever bits and laugh-out-loud moments. He imbues Tim with a wild imagination, and the animation crew makes those scenes pop with brilliance. Director Tom McGrath, who helmed the three DreamWorks' "Madagascar" films, has captured the family dynamic in "The Boss Baby" and executed it with precision and hilarity. If you have a family, you simply must see "The Boss Baby". If not, go anyway --- Baldwin makes it well worth the effort! Opinion: See It Now! David: "The Boss Baby" gets kudos for its originality, its quality animation and its editing. When Boss Baby transitions from his normal persona to an actual baby, and back again, the effect is entertaining. However, the overall story is a bit of a one-note theme, and after the first 45 minutes or so, it gets tedious. Too much of the heart of the film deals with the brothers spying on a company that breeds puppies so darling that baby cuteness could go the way of the dodo bird. Unfortunately, the prefab puppies do not really look all that cute and cuddly. I thought the animators could have come up with a devastatingly adorable canine pup that no one could possibly resist. But they didn't. Aside from that, Alec Baldwin (voice of Boss Baby), whose character is oddly never given a name by mom and dad, (voiced by Lisa Kudrow and Jimmy Kimmel) is a great choice for the role because of his comedic timing. I was half expecting --- and maybe hoping --- Boss Baby would lapse into a bit of Trumpism, but no dice.