You might take your kids to see “The Boss Baby” wondering how Alec Baldwin’s goo-goo-gaga go-getter compares to “Family Guy” terror tot Stewie Griffin, or cigar-chomping Baby Herman from “Who Framed Roger Rabbit.” But DreamWorks’ latest animated feature exists more in the shadow of last fall’s “Storks,” as Baldwin’s amusingly arch character ultimately can’t keep the movie from playing like a modest variation. Director Tom McGrath and team deliver some keen observations on growing-family dynamics and a number of laughs, but they run out of story a while before putting this one to bed. Advertisement The movie’s elaborate baby-factory opener, for all its cuddly charm, feels particularly like something we just saw. Well, with one notable exception: Here, bare-bottomed cherubs who don’t respond to the mill’s tickle machine are designated as management, outfitted with business suits and briefcases, and dispatched to slightly more sophisticated assignments. For Baldwin’s very junior executive, this means going to live with 7-year-old Tim Templeton (Miles Christopher Bakshi, holding his own, with an assist from Tobey Maguire for grown-up reminiscences). Boss Baby promptly takes over the house, of course, from hogging the kids’ parents (Lisa Kudrow and Jimmy Kimmel) to littering the place with baby gear. (Love little touches such as the “02” jersey Tim wears to denote his priority downgrade, or how his new brother calls him “Templeton” with unmistakable Jack Donaghy hauteur. There’s also no missing Baldwin’s riff on his “Glengarry Glen Ross” closer. And do we detect a hint of Trump in his threat to fire Tim from the family?) Even more galling for this frustrated firstborn is that the adults remain oblivious to the baby’s closet shrewdness. Not Tim, though — after walking in on a toy-phone business call, he knows the little sneak is up to something. Get The Weekender in your inbox: The Globe's top picks for what to see and do each weekend, in Boston and beyond. Sign Up Thank you for signing up! Sign up for more newsletters here And what would that be, exactly? In providing answers, the movie offers an entertainingly truthful look at how jealousy of a new sibling and new-sibling bonding can go hand in hand. But this is also where the story bogs down, as the focus turns to Boss Baby’s hush-hush mission to stop megalomaniacal Steve Buscemi’s puppy conglomerate from cornering the global market on cuteness. After riotously scoring with, say, a first-act sequence applying action clichés to pedal-pusher vehicular mayhem, the animators suddenly get caught up in less-inspired chaos, something about Vegas, a rocket launch, and a henchman who dresses like Mary Poppins. At least a plot point about “secret formula” is sort of clever. The rest comes across as gibberish. ★★½ THE BOSS BABY Directed by Tom McGrath. Written by Michael McCullers, based on the book by Marla Frazee. Starring Alec Baldwin, Miles Christopher Bakshi, Lisa Kudrow, Jimmy Kimmel, Steve Buscemi. At Boston Common, Fenway, suburbs. 97 minutes. PG (some mild rude humor).