There wasn't always a genre for movies like “The Boss Baby.” But there is now. Time was when “Toy Story” blew minds in 1995 and “Shrek” made audiences of children and adults alike laugh and cry in 2001. These film confections were some of the first to blend hypnotizingly crisp animation, clever scripts and genuinely moving music. These were a new thing — animated movies that seemed at first glance aimed only at children, but that had hidden jokes and subtlety adults loved also. Alec Baldwin is the voice of the Boss Baby, who gets down to business on the phone. (DreamWorks Animation) “The Boss Baby” tells a story that starts with a simple sibling rivalry between an imaginative 7-year-old and his newly arrived, parental-attention-dominating little brother, voiced by Alec Baldwin. Movie review: ‘The Lego Batman Movie’ builds on a great brand The plot expands into a full-blown fantasy in which the baby wears suits, speaks perfect Baldwin when adults aren’t around, and engages in a complex plot to undermine the popularity of puppies. Boss Baby (voiced by Alec Baldwin) tries to convince Tim (voiced by Miles Bakshi) that they must cooperate. (DreamWorks Animation) Everything is perfectly entertaining. Too perfectly. It was about the time that the adorable and scheming Boss Baby slapped a chocolate chip cookie out of another baby’s mouth and said, “Cookies are for closers!” that it hit me. I realized that what I was seeing in gorgeous color and brilliantly varied animation styles was a purely derivative product assembled by a well-oiled, completely professional, highly evolved animation movie machine. Mom (voiced by Lisa Kudrow) and dad (voiced by Jimmy Kimmel) introduce welcome their new bundle (voiced by Alec Baldwin). (DreamWorks Animation) Kids will enjoy it, and adults will, too. I laughed knowingly with the other cineastes at the “Glengarry Glen Ross” reference. But they are not likely to love it like the trailblazing originals. ‘Power Rangers’ needs more zip — and focus: movie review The film surely had as many end credits as a modern “Star Wars” sequel, plus a brief humorous sequence at the end of the long, long credit roll. Did they need to list the entire merchandising department at Dreamworks? Oh, I guess they did, since that’s the business plan here, right? Deliver a movie kids will watch a hundred times and then sell, sell, sell stuffed Boss Babies. Push the belly button and it speaks: “Cookies are for closers! Cookies are for closers!” It's true that when some people hear the title of this film, “The Boss Baby,” they might picture a certain major politician with a penchant for early morning fits of tweeting. But the truth is, I didn’t detect any political humor at all. This movie is safe the whole way. Why risk anything?