Robin Clifford Laura Clifford Seven-year old Tim (Miles Christopher Bakshi) has the perfect life. His mom and dad (Lisa Kudrow and Jimmy Kimmel) work at Puppyco and dote on their only child until, one day, things horribly change for the lad. His mother and father have gone behind his back and bring home, without warning, “The Boss Baby.” Robin: I had reservations about spending my precious Saturday morning (my sleepy time) watching an animation called “The Boss Baby.” Here is what I thought would transpire: Long coddled Tim gets the news about the new, unwanted addition to his family, the story being about his shaded view of the baby. Through Tim’s eyes, the baby is a demanding martinet who rules the roost, but is still just a baby. Director Tom McGrath and scripter Michael McCullers adapt the book by Marla Frazee and take the story I expected and turn it on its ear. The titular tot, voiced just right by Alec Baldwin, is a troubleshooter for Babycorp, whose very existence is put in jeopardy by a disgruntled former employee, Francis Francis (Steve Buscemi). Francis is now the boss at Puppyco and plans to put the baby biz out of business with the introduction of the Forever Puppy. That’s the framework for a more personal story about Tim and his new little brother. The baby is really the boss of the family, wreaking havoc on Tim’s old life and making him cope with a new one. What begins as a sibling rivalry and a battle of wills and wits between the two youngsters becomes a fragile alliance as they bond in a common cause. The result is a family comedy that will amuse and entertain all ages. The bright colors and animated action will amuse the youngest moviegoers, but the sharp humor and snappy dialog will please both parents and non-parents, like me. The characters, especially Tim and Boss Baby, are fully fleshed out and the babies-versus-puppies controversy is handled with a real sense of sibling rivalry for mom and dad’s attention. What could have been a kids’ movie has more impact with combination of genuine child’s issues, like a new baby, and the fantasy corporate world dominated by highly intelligent and motivated toddlers trying to take over the world. I give it a B.