The Boss Baby Is Adorable (Just Not Memorable) The last time Alec Baldwin and Lisa Kudrow teamed up onscreen, it was when he played her annoying beau on Friends. Now he is playing her annoying infant in The Boss Baby, and the team-up is just as terrific. Loosely based on Marla Frazee’s 2010 children’s book, this flick is fun, but perhaps overly complex for younger kids. 2017, PG In this wildly imaginative animated 3D feature from DreamWorks, a new baby’s arrival rocks the whole world of his 7-year-old brother, Tim Templeton (Miles Christopher Bakshi), and not in a good way. Their parents (Lisa Kudrow, Jimmy Kimmel) try to make sure both boys feel equally loved, however Tim is determined to prove that something just not quite right with the tough-talking, briefcase-brandishing baby. Sibling rivalry must be put aside when Tim discovers that the miniature menace is actually a spy on a secret mission, and only he can help thwart a despicable plot that involves an epic battle between babies and puppies. Boss Baby starts running the household like the megalomaniac tycoon he is, but the doting parents just think he’s being a kid. Tim thinks it’s a hostile takeover, and he is not having it. A few hijinks ensue, including a clever chase scene set to old 1970s cop show music and a sequence involving talcum powder than will have all the kiddies giggling. However, things change when Tim comes to the realization that Boss Baby will leave as soon as his mission to defeat the puppy is accomplished. He decides to pitch in to help speed things along, sending his and his little bro out into the big, bad world. Boss Baby owes everything to Baldwin for giving him a great voice and comedic timing, but beyond that he’s no Stewie (the witty, wisecracking rugrat from “The Family Guy”) and, as it turns out, he’s not even The Boss Baby; as I said, it’s complicated. The flick is fast-paced, offers up some chuckles, and is visually dazzling – and the sequin-studded sequence in Las Vegas that features a bunch of Elvis impersonators is worth the price of admission. But don’t go in expecting another Finding Dory or Inside Out – it’s no deeper than The Boss Baby’s razor-thin briefcase. Visit Common Sense Media for more info on this movie’s appropriateness for your child.