He may play a baby in the film, but Alec Baldwin was in dad role when attending the premiere for his latest movie 'Boss Baby' with his wife and children in New York on March 21. ( The Associated Press ) The Boss Baby Starring voices of Alec Baldwin, Jimmy Kimmel, Lisa Kudrow, Miles Bakshi. Directed by Tom McGrath. 97 minutes. Opens Friday in major theatres. G Big-eyed Tim is living a dreamy 7-year-old, only-child life. He has parents who dote on him alone, with nightly offers of three stories, five hugs and his favourite song. Article Continued Below But one fateful day a small mysterious stranger shows up by way of a taxicab — toting a tiny briefcase, wearing a tiny suit and, oh yeah, a diaper. Tim, voiced by Miles Bakshi, has his suspicions about the new baby, voiced by Alec Baldwin in The Boss Baby. ( DreamWorks Animation ) DreamWorks’ The Boss Baby is based on the picture book by Marla Frazee with Alec Baldwin voicing the odd infant in question. It seeks to answer the ever-problematic question “Where do babies come from?” with “Baby Corp.” Who knew that babies, after their conveyor-belt entry into this world, are divided into those that end up in families and those that are plucked to be “management”? Baldwin’s baby, of course, falls into the latter category, right down to his gartered socks. The suspicious Tim (voiced by Miles Bakshi and by Tobey Maguire in voice-over flashback) finds this out by happening upon his supposed little brother making deals on his Fisher Price phone, tossing dollar bills to make problems go away and to order sushi, and shaking up martini-like solutions of “Special Formula” that will keep the goo-goo-ga-ga realities of babyhood from taking over. Boss Baby’s secret mission, we learn, is to keep other babies from losing their piece of the love pie to the scourge of the earth: puppies. Tim’s parents (Jimmy Kimmel and Lisa Kudrow), both marketers for Puppy Co., see nothing askew about the tiny executive who occupies the crib down the hall. They are among those unleashing a new Forever Puppy on the world and Boss Baby has been sent to make sure that doesn’t happen. As expected, somewhere along the way Tim and the baby put aside their differences and team up to rid the world of the evil puppies. While the title figure is a bit of a one-joke wonder — the baby is wearing a suit! — director Tom McGrath (of the Madagascar movies) has managed to craft a story funny enough to keep sleep-deprived adults and their tiny leaders happy. It’s got enough visual gags — a car chase using Big Wheel-ish toys, a toy marketing launch that is actually a rocket launch — for the grown-ups and a few minor potty jokes to appeal to the 4-year-olds in the crowd. Boss Baby is not quite Stewie from Family Guy, but he’ll do for the younger set. Add to that a certain Jack Donaghy/Trumpishness about the main character, who when playing pirates yells “You’re fired, and here’s your severance package!” One almost expects him to shout out “Lemon!” at any moment (note to self: check if Tina Fey has done any voice work). With its snappy pace and bright animation, this movie will appeal both to parents who always suspect that the baby is the boss and to their children, who know that this is a fact. Read more about: