CLEVELAND, Ohio -- Oh, baby. "The Boss Baby" is so close and yet so far from being an animated kids movie classic like "Toy Story." When will these people in Hollywood studios (DreamWorks) learn that less is always more when it comes to potential blockbuster material? Sometimes they do, and sometimes they don't. "The Boss Baby" is ultimately a don't. The movie has a lot going for it and will surely entertain the shoes off kids younger than 10. The folks who drive them to the theater and possibly watch it with them will probably enjoy it less so. But as hard as it works to be fun for adults, too, the story, even at 97 minutes, drags through the third act. It will have all the grown-ups looking at their watches and wondering when this initially delightful movie will finally huff and puff toward its inevitable heartwarming conclusion. Seven-year-old Tim Templeton (the voice of Miles Christopher Bakshi) has a perfect life as the only child of his doting parents, voiced by Jimmy Kimmel and Lisa Kudrow. They read him books, give him hugs and serenade him at night with the Beatles lullaby "Blackbird." Tim's not thrilled with the news that there is a little brother on the way. Yet when the kid (known only as Boss Baby, with the voice of Alec Baldwin) shows up, wearing a suit and tie and a fancy watch and with a briefcase in hand, no one seems to find this odd. Tim spies on his new little brother and finds out that not only can the newborn walk and speak fluently, but he also seems to be on a mission from a place far, far away. After Tim and Boss Baby battle for domination on the homestead, it is revealed that Boss Baby has been sent from the baby factory in the sky, and he's there to fix a problem. It seems that worldwide puppy love is overtaking baby love. Soon babies will have to settle for a back seat to canine pets. It's all kind of crazy and convoluted. But sadly, it gets only more so. The film is beautifully animated and full of engaging action sequences. If you loved Alec Baldwin in the hit television sitcom "30 Rock" as knucklehead network executive Jack Donaghy, you will appreciate him here in a more diminutive form. The body is smaller, but the attitude and humor are the same. There is even a reference to Baldwin's short but powerful opening role in the David Mamet movie "Glengarry Glen Ross." "Cookies are for closers," Boss Baby says to his crew of tiny toddler helpers. There are lots of funny lines and visuals in "The Boss Baby," but ultimately the story gets too complicated and goes on too long for an adult audience to keep caring about it. A little judicious pruning would have gone a long way here. REVIEW The Boss Baby Who: Starring the voices of Alec Baldwin, Miles Christopher Bakshi, Jimmy Kimmel, Lisa Kudrow and Steve Buscemi. Directed by Tom McGrath. Rated: PG. Running time: 97 minutes. When: Opens Friday. Where: Area theaters. Grade: B-