A well-done movie musical is a great equalizer: It can make audiences feel like they’re in the front row at a Broadway show without the sticker shock. Bill Condon’s lavish live-action “Beauty and the Beast” pulls this off, sticking closely enough to the original that it should satisfy its legions of fans — among which, I confess, I’ve never really counted myself. The 1991 “Beauty” always felt like minor Disney to me, a step down for the “Little Mermaid” team Howard Ashman and Alan Menken. But, devotees, let’s agree to disagree because this version of the tale about a cursed prince and the plucky bookworm whose love redeems him has something for everyone. Emma Watson fleshes out the heroine, Belle, courtesy of screenwriters Stephen Chbosky and Evan Spiliotopoulos. She’s a fledgling inventor (instead of her dad, Maurice, played by Kevin Kline), a mentor to girls in her 18th-century village who want to read, and is unafraid to tell her boorish suitor, Gaston (a perfect, preening Luke Evans) that she’s too young have kids. Watson carries a passable tune, and her eyes have the sparkle of a damsel who’s prepared to come to her own rescue. Dan Stevens (“Downton Abbey”), as the Beast, has the heaviest lift. He’s emoting through a CGI veil that never quite feels real. But his cranky character is more engaging this time around. He’s a fellow reader who doesn’t treat Belle with chivalrous kid gloves. In their snowball fight, he actually goes through with lobbing a gigantic one at her, knocking her to the ground. It’s a weirdly slapstick moment, but I liked it. When has a Disney princess ever been treated like the love interest in a Farrelly brothers movie? The castle’s animated inanimate objects — a candlestick (Ewan McGregor), clock (Ian McKellen), teapot (Emma Thompson), wardrobe (Audra McDonald) and feather duster (Gugu Mbatha-Raw), plus Stanley Tucci as a piano — stump along pretty much like they did in the cartoon. McGregor’s rendition of “Be Our Guest” is a retro-styled showstopper, though I can’t say the same of the three new songs, which just increase the soundtrack’s clunkers-to-classics ratio. And about that gay subplot? Yup, it’s obvious LeFou (Josh Gad, every musical’s secret weapon) has a thing for his buddy — the tavern singalong “Gaston,” the film’s best number, all but spells it out. There’s a brief shot of two men dancing, and a scene in which one redneck villager, magicked into a dress and makeup, responds with delight instead of horror. It’s also worth noting that Ashman, who died of complications from AIDS in 1991, saw the cursed Beast as a metaphor for the disease. So if you loved the original, you’ve already embraced a gay subtext. Other (light) modernist touches abound. The witch, who initially curses the prince, pops up throughout the film: “Do you know what happens to spinsters whose fathers die?” Gaston growls at Belle, gesturing at a beggar woman. She’ll later be the one who saves Belle’s dad. When Gaston fearmongers villagers into storming the Beast’s castle, it hums with a certain topicality; likewise the flock of books fighting back against an illiterate mob. Really, everybody wins. If you want your old favorite dressed in sumptuous new clothes, that’s what you’ll get. Those who always desired a little more depth from “Beauty and the Beast” will be happy, too: There’s something there that wasn’t there before.