Dan Stevens as The Beast and Emma Watson as Belle in a live-action adaptation of the animated classic Beauty and the Beast. ( AP ) Beauty and the Beast Starring Emma Watson, Dan Stevens, Kevin Kline, Luke Evans, Josh Gad, Ewan McGregor, Emma Thompson, Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Audra McDonald and Ian McKellen. Directed by Bill Condon. Opens Friday at GTA theatres. 129 minutes. PG Bill Condon’s enchanting live-action adaptation of Disney’s Beauty and the Beast is designed to make believers of skeptics — even those who think the 1991 animated version can’t be topped. The original set a new animation standard and earned a then-unprecedented Oscar nomination for Best Picture. The live-action interloper, which remains mostly faithful to the story and songs (by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman) obviously can’t follow a similar awards path, but the thrills remain. Article Continued Below The greatest achievement of the new film — which stars Harry Potter’s Emma Watson as beautiful Belle and Downton Abbey’s Dan Stevens as her beastly suitor — will be pleasing both lovers of Beauty and the Beasts’ love-conquers-all spirit while also attracting newcomers to the tale. Read more: Disney’s Lefou too gay for some not gay enough for others With Beauty and the Beast poised for success, Disney readies more remakes Emma Watson and Dan Stevens - the stars of the live action version of "Beauty and the Beast" - discuss the tale's timeless quality and how they've updated it for 2016. ( The Associated Press ) The story, based on an oft-told French fairy tale, begins with the Prince (Stevens), a selfish toff who unduly taxes his minions while cavorting in his woodland castle. A mysterious Enchantress crashes one of the Prince’s never-ending parties, turning him into a fearsome horned beast, and his household staff into housewares. She carries with her a rose whose petals can foretell disaster or deliverance. The Enchantress wants to teach The Prince a lesson: “Beauty is found within.” Outside the forest, in a small French town populated mainly by people with English accents, we find Belle (Watson), a young woman of grace and strength who longs for a life less provincial. She sings her heart out as the camera swirls around her with Sound of Music zeal. Sweet Belle doesn’t want to become the wife of preening hunter Gaston (Luke Evans), who claims to have eyes only for her but who really prefers to stare at himself in the mirror. Josh Gad plays Gaston’s assistant LeFou with evident gay abandon, a highly enjoyable and commendably diverse departure from the 1991 template. Take that, all you red state rednecks! Belle lives with her widowed father Maurice (Kevin Kline’s best role in 20 years). He builds clocks, perhaps to remind himself of the time when his beloved wife still walked the Earth. "Beauty and the Beast" director Bill Condon and composer Alan Menken discuss the natural singing talent of the film's leads, Emma Watson and Dan Stevens. ( The Associated Press ) His disappearance in the forest while on a trip to market sets in motion fateful events that will bring Belle within the realm not just of vicious wolves, but also of the vengeful and brooding Beast. You likely know how it goes from here, but Condon — who previously conjured Motown with Dreamgirls and supernatural teenhood with one of the lesser Twilight movies — makes the retelling worth it. The new film is praiseworthy in every regard. It takes full advantage of technological advances since the animated film’s heyday to make both credible and delightful the digitally conjured versions of the cartoon’s highly mobile (and vocal) household objects. What a grand bang and clatter they make, especially when they join in song and dance for the “Be Our Guest” showstopper: They include: Emma Thompson as the wise teapot, Mrs. Potts, along with her son Chip (Nathan Mack), who is a precocious teacup; Ewan McGregor as Lumière, the bold French candelabra; Ian McKellen as Cogsworth, the crabby mantel clock; Gugu Mbatha-Raw as Plumette, a romantic feather duster; Stanley Tucci as musical Maestro Cadenza, the harpsichord; and Audra McDonald as Madame de Garderobe, the grand dame of operatic wardrobes. Three new songs are added, including the Menken/Tim Rice collaboration “Evermore.” Dan Stevens proves to be one of the best singers in a cast that hits nary a bum note. If there has to be live-action remakes of classic Disney animated movies, may they all be as good as Beauty and the Beast.