★★★★ Hot on the heels of Cinderella and The Jungle Book comes Beauty and the Beast, Disney’s live-action remake of their beloved 1991 animated hit. And where the previous films downplayed the musical elements, Beauty and the Beast is a full-on song and dance extravaganza that’s set to delight both newcomers and fans of the original alike. Director: Bill Condon Starring: Emma Watson, Dan Stevens, Luke Evans, Kevin Kline, Josh Gad, Ewan McGregor, Stanley Tucci, Ian McKellen, Emma Thompson Genre: Fantasy / Musical Country: USA Release date: March 17, 2017 Cert: PG Running time: 129 mins Set in a fairy-tale version of France, the film stars Emma Watson as Belle, a bookish girl from the small village of Villeneuve, whose father (Kevin Kline) is locked up in an enchanted castle by a hideous Beast (Downton Abbey’s Dan Stevens), after he’s caught stealing a rose. When Belle finds her father, she offers herself in his place, which excites the castle’s magical inhabitants – including Lumiere the candlestick (Ewan McGregor), Cogsworth the clock (Ian McKellen) and Mrs Potts the teapot (Emma Thompson). The Beast is actually a former handsome prince, turned into a monster because of his callous behaviour. He needs to fall in love in order to break the spell. Comic delight Watson acquits herself nicely as Belle, radiating kindness and generating strong chemistry with Stevens. She even comes with a built-in bookish association thanks to her role as Harry Potter’s Hermione. Similarly, Stevens’ voice work is terrific on the Beast, though credit for the physical performance is equally due to the special effects team, who provide an impressively rendered and surprisingly expressive creature who’s all fur, horns and teeth. As for the supporting cast, Luke Evans is a comic delight as Belle’s vain and arrogant would-be suitor Gaston, and Josh Gad has a lot of fun as Gaston’s besotted sidekick LeFou – their rendition of the song Gaston (containing the line “I use antlers in all of my decorating”) is one of several highlights. On top of that, McGregor, Thompson and McKellen are all terrific as the castle’s servants, and there’s a nice tribute to them at the end. Delivered with proper gusto This presents a remarkably faithful scene-for-scene recreation of the original animated movie, extending from the shot compositions themselves right down to the iconic costume designs. Belle’s signature yellow dress in particular is a wonder to behold. However, the script also includes a couple of worthwhile expansions, including four whole new musical numbers by original songwriter Alan Menken and a moving, cleverly integrated backstory that deepens and enriches Belle’s relationship with her father. The musical numbers are delivered with proper gusto, too. The show-stopping Be Our Guest even out-does the original animated version with its fanciful, Busby Berkeley-esque visuals of dancing plates. This is a delight from start to finish thanks to charming performances, state-of-the-art effects work, stunning production design and musical numbers that will stick in your head for days.