What, exactly, is the point of a “live-action” version of the animated musical “Beauty and the Beast,” when roughly half of it appears to be animated? It’s not just the Beast, who appears to be about 50 percent digital effects, 30 percent animated and 20 percent actor Dan Stevens. It’s also many of the backdrops, which have a weird, computery look. It’s the dead-looking eyes of many supporting humans and animals. Also, of course, it’s many of the beloved characters from Disney’s classic, 1991 “Beauty and the Beast,” which told this story about as well as it can be told while introducing us to candlestick Lumiere, timepiece Cogsworth and teapot Mrs. Potts. All of those last characters were animated in 1991 and they remain animated for nearly all of what I’ll call the new movie, for lack of a better term. They still work, by the way, because of the vivid performers who bring them to life. My fave, then and now, is Mrs. Potts, with Emma Thompson every bit the equal of Angela Lansbury as the kind-hearted Cockney teapot. (Accents are all over the map in “B and B,” which might be set in France, although the accents suggest about eight other locales.) Thompson doesn’t just sing the title song — she acts the heck out of it. And she benefits most from material that this film adds to the original, indicating that Mrs. Potts and the other bewitched residents of the Beast’s castle believe they share the blame for their fate, which is the result of a spell that doomed a callow prince to life as a beast (and his servants to life as inanimate objects) unless he could inspire genuine love in someone. Related Articles Tim McNiff is returning to KARE 11 In Demme’s eclectic career, a nonstop rock ‘n’ roll beat Movie review: Romanian thriller ‘Graduation’ gets better by degrees ‘Bachelor’ star arrested after allegedly fleeing deadly Iowa crash Western Wisconsin TV station owner suing over morning show prank That’s where Belle comes in, played by Emma Watson. She certainly looks the part of Beauty and she has become a much better actor since her early days in the “Harry Potter” movies, but there’s something passive about Watson here. She’s fine when there’s lots happening around her — for instance, in the dandy opening song, “Belle,” which tells us everything we need to know about virtually everyone in the film — but she tends to fade in the castle scenes. Maybe because she’s overwhelmed by the impressively ornate sets and by the need to interact with characters added to the film only in post-production? As the song says, this is a “tale as old as time” and there’s plenty to like about it, even if much of its appeal comes from capably re-creating the earlier film. A book lover myself, I am a fan of the scene in which the Beast’s extensive library helps Belle start to fall for him. The new version improves on all previous versions in the tender relationship between Belle and her absent-minded dad (a sweetly amusing Kevin Kline). I appreciate that this version works harder to help us understand the Beast. And the songs remain great. (Slyly, director Bill Condon has inserted a nod to another classic musical, “The Sound of Music.”) As long as you can ignore the weirdly painterly look of much of this “Beauty and the Beast,” I’d recommend it — with the proviso that I would recommend the 1991 version, which is both perfect and 45 minutes shorter, much more heartily. “BEAUTY AND THE BEAST”