You know what idea was ahead of its time? Gus Van Sant’s Psycho. Sure, that film—in which Vince Vaughn, of all people, was tasked with recreating one of the most iconic villains in cinematic history—was a notorious flop, a disaster so moored to its source material that it actually put masturbation noises on the soundtrack when Norman Bates is spying on Marion Crane. But what Van Sant saw as a low-budget cineaste experiment in 1998 sure does look a lot like corporate strategy today. It’s Alfred Hitchcock’s classic…exactly like you’ve seen before. As a bonus, there’s build-in brand awareness! I thought a lot about Van Sant’s Psycho while watching the new remake/reboot/whatever of Disney’s Beauty and the Beast, which feels like it should be some sort of shot-by-shot experimental film but is actually a massive, expensive production that is expected to pull in a billion dollars worldwide. The film is, of course, based on the Best Picture–nominated and absolutely wonderful 1991 animated film of the same name, with the same characters and the same songs and the same everything, only this time it is cast with actors rather than animated characters. There are a few add-ons—a couple of dull songs that weren’t in the first version, slight tweaks for 2017 sensibilities—but this is essentially the same movie. As Buzzfeed has pointed out, the remake at times even reaches the shot-by-shot fidelity of Van Sant’s film, to the point that you wonder if the filmmakers were watching the old film on set and trying to match the shots up perfectly. Thus, what was considered insane and absurd in 1998 is now accepted Disney policy. You have well-known actors in the main roles: Emma Watson (who is just fine but probably too smart for this sort of role, even with a “reimagined” Belle) in the lead, Dan Stevens as the Beast, Kevin Kline as the dad, Luke Evans as a duller Gaston, and a host of twinkly-toned stars as all the teapots and brooms and cupboards in the castle, including Ewan McGregor, Emma Thompson, Stanley Tucci, and Ian McKellan, none of whom, alas, can measure up to Jerry Orbach and Angela Lansbury.