OK, back to it: It should have been Chris Evans, not Luke Evans, as aggressive and stupid Gaston, who is neither taller nor burlier than Belle's father, Maurice (Kevin Kline), and thus doesn't earn his song about how big and great he is. As for Maurice, he's now less wacky and not even an inventor (that was more of a late-‘80s/early-'90s onscreen dad thing), so the townspeople's dismissal of anything he says seems more arbitrary. Though one of the film's few sweet moments comes during his introduction, singing to himself about love making a moment last forever. It's nice. As is a brief flicker between Belle and the Beast (Dan Stevens of "Legion" and "The Guest") when they almost establish a connection as two loners. Yet it still feels too minor, too forced. The movie also can't decide how much Belle worries about her dad or find a way to handle the material -- the way she refers to her affections as "a bit alarming" feels like the understatement of the decade. Hitting her with a big snowball in an animated movie can be playful. In live-action, it looks like it would leave a bruise and require a major apology. But Condon skips right past that because there’s more opulent, fake-looking scenery to showcase. Besides, the Beast's character never makes any emotional sense. He was a total jackass who's become short-tempered and scary in his animal form but has put no effort into breaking the curse for his sake or that of the staff (who isn't mad), and can reverse his attitude on a dime? It turns the Beast into a Snickers commercial, just a good guy in a bad mood. It's low praise to say "Beauty and the Beast" isn't as horrendous as the “Cinderella” remake or unintentionally funny like "Beastly," a terrible movie about a similar concept that I'd be more inclined to watch again than this unnecessary remake. But it's still just a princess fantasy disguised as empowerment, revealing only that someone who likes books may feel OK about someone who has books, can defend her from wolves and isn't a total jerk. It’s not a feminist story. As for the much-discussed, "first openly gay Disney character," Gaston's sidekick LeFou, well, Josh Gad remains one of the world’s least subtle, most excruciating actors. His interpretation is to make LeFou a more flamboyant Smithers, without any idea how to create truth or land a joke. The only idea that registered anew is, as Gaston goes about his same, transparently unpleasant agenda, the danger of a foolish group of people blindly following a large, egotistical idiot without a clue or interest in knowing how to talk to women or exist in society. D+