Back in the 1990s, the House of Mouse had something of a big comeback in terms of its animated films, after several years of poor performances commercially. Enter the Disney Renaissance era. From 1989 to 1999 the studio produced some of its most memorable animated musicals from The Little Mermaid and Aladdin to likes of The Lion King and Hercules – all the way through to Mulan and Tarzan. Of course one of their biggest hits during that period was 1991’s Beauty and the Beast; the first animated film to be nominated for Best Picture at the Oscars. DISNEY Beauty and the Beast movie REVIEW: Stunning special effects don't warrant pointless remake Having had a cash-in period of direct-to-video sequels for some of their Renaissance hits – including two for Beauty and the Beast set within Belle’s time at the castle – Disney have started putting out live-action remakesof all their best animated films. So far we’ve seen the likes of Alice in Wonderland, Cinderella and most recently The Jungle Book. While Aladdin, Mulan and The Little Mermaid are in the works, it’s Beauty and the Beast’s turn – but has it lived up to the original classic? New movies for 2017 Fri, December 30, 2016 New movies for 2017 - Get your popcorn ready, here are the best films coming your way in the new year including the eagerly anticipated Beauty and the Beast, Wonder Woman & Despicable Me 3. Play slideshow PH 1 of 16 Unmissable new films for 2017 When the first trailers were released, fans were quick to notice how they were a frame for frame copy of the original film’s from over 25 years ago. And it’s certainly true that Beauty and the Beast wants to replicate much, if not all, of what the animated film achieved – but with added trimmings. This is the usual fairy tale of Belle (Emma Watson) being held prisoner in the Beast’s (Dan Stevens) cursed magical castle as they slowly fall in love, while slimey suitor Gaston (Luke Evans) plots how to ‘free’ her. News of Disney’s first gay character in the villain’s sidekick LeFou (Josh Gad) may have hit headlines in the run up to the film’s release, but the main addition are four new songs from original composer Alan Menken. Unfortunately they’re largely forgettable compared to the original tunes, which are performed well, but even Be Our Guest leaves you thinking how the animated version performed it so much better. DISNEY Beauty and the Beast is pretty to look at, but it's nowhere near as good as the animated original Beauty and the Beast’s highlight is its stunning special effects and set pieces, especially that of the anthropomorphic household objects, which glimmer with realistic glee –but this isn’t enough to warrant a remake. While the casting, performances and musical numbers were largely well done, they don’t quite carry the charm of the 1991 original. Watson and Stevens are unashamedly type cast, with the lead actress repeating her bookish Hermione and the latter playing up to his Downton Abbey Lord again. As for Gaston, Luke Evans doesn’t quite have the look or arrogant charm of his cartoon counterpart. If only the film had been made 10 years earlier, perhaps Hugh Jackman could have played the baddie – having perfectly fit the part in the stage show during his early career. DISNEY Beauty and the Beast is a new live-action remake from Disney