Emma Watson is the perfect choice for the role of Belle, writes The Sun's film critic Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Beauty and the Beast: first review (PG) 129 mins 4/5 stars I’LL level with you — I was not looking forward to this film. On the face of it, there seemed little to offer this middle-class, middle-aged man, especially as I was crammed into a screening surrounded by massively excited Disney princesses (of all ages). AP:Associated Press 6 Beauty and the Beast hits cinemas Friday, March 17 New and final full trailer for Beauty and the Beast But 129 minutes later, you may as well have passed me a tiara. I was completely sold. What a lovely film. If this is where we’re heading with live-action remakes then we are in for a plethora of delights. Scope Features 6 Emma Watson plays Belle in the live-action counterpart to Disney's 1991 animation Getty Images 6 The actress appears at the film's Los Angeles premiere Stars come out for the Beauty and the Beast London premiere Disney’s new take on its 1991 animated version is ambitious, confident, charming and while not without faults, pretty much the perfect family film. First off — let’s talk about Emma Watson. Her casting as Belle was controversial, but within ten minutes you can’t think of anyone better. Getty Images 6 Dan Stevens plays the titular Beast (with the help, throughout much of the movie, of CGI) MOST READ IN TV & SHOWBIZ Feel the force Star Wars actor John Boyega switches space for the stage in Old Vic production Woyzeck KHALEE-SEE Emilia Clarke strips naked for raunchy sex scenes in new film thriller Voice from the Stone FROM GALLIFREY TO THE GALAXY Karen Gillan gets ready for new space adventure with latest role in Guardians of the Galaxy: Volume 2 DARK KNIGHT It's David Beckham as you've never seen him before... as he dons armour for Guy Ritchie's King Arthur film Jamie East at the movies With great acting and CGI, Guardians Of The Galaxy Vol 2 is out of this world jamie east A Moving Image is an arthouse flick that cleverly highlights the urban changes affecting inner-city London Yes, there are a few wobbly moments, but to be frank, she absolutely nails it. Dan Stevens is perfectly beastly (the CGI beast is pleasantly expressive), there’s a terrific double act in Luke Evans as Gaston and Josh Gad as LeFou, and any film with Ewan McGregor, Ian McKellen, Stanley Tucci and Emma Thompson in support roles can’t do much wrong. Forget the furore over its gay character, the interracial kiss (between a candelabra and a feather duster FFS) and accusations of Stockholm Syndrome — just enjoy the spectacle. Getty Images 6 Emma nails the role of Belle, writes The Sun's film critic Reuters 6 The actress meets Celine Dion, who sings a new song in the movie If you like smiling and feeling warm inside, get in line. The songs are lovely, the sets breathtaking and the whole package is a delight. I walked in with trepidation — yet skipped out singing Be Our Guest.