★★½ PG, 129 minutes Whether you consider the decision wise or wasteful, there's no doubting that Disney's new live-action version of Beauty and the Beast is closely aligned to the studio's celebrated 1991 animated musical fantasy. Almost shot-for-shot at some points, and not exactly unexpected elsewhere, the new version aims for reassurance. It's an ornate, expensive remake, but all the detail of Bill Condon's movie can't obscure the lack of anything truly new to express. SHARE Share on Facebook SHARE Share on Twitter TWEET Link Beauty and the Beast is lacking in any real sense of romance. Photo: Disney There are certainly tweaks, beginning with the independent streak of Belle (Emma Watson), who lives in a picture-book version of royal France with her widowed father, Maurice (Kevin Kline), where the picturesque lurks at every turn. When not reaching a hilltop just as a horn fanfare peaks during a musical number, Belle is predating the washing machine with a donkey and a water trough. But like much in this film, her nonconformity is a trait that's ticked off and then essentially put aside. Any changes in Stephen Chbosky and Evan Spiliotopoulos' screenplay are handled in a passing, self-conscious manner, happy to be admired but not keen on changing the source material. It's the same with a handful of new songs, none of which are particularly memorable. As shown by Jean Cocteau's magical 1946 film, the parameters of Gabrielle-Suzanne Barbot de Villeneuve's 18th-century fairy tale do allow for genuine experimentation. Belle is clear in her rejection of the arrogant Gaston (Luke Evans), an ex-soldier and narcissist who wants to marry her despite the muffled protests of his adoring manservant LeFou (Josh Gad), but when she goes looking for the lost Maurice she's imprisoned in his place by the Beast (Dan Stevens), a former aristocrat cursed for his cruel selfishness with an excess of facial hair, serious hooves and a magically isolated castle. The Beast and his condemned servants, who have been turned into household furniture clinking and clanking from room to room, are on a ticking clock. He must learn to love, and earn love in return, which makes him both desperate and petulant. Stevens has done some fine work since leaving Downton Abbey – if you've seen him in the American indie thriller The Gift, you'll know he'd make a great James Bond – but he struggles here beneath the make-up and the teenage boy's attitude. Advertisement It's up to the likes of mantel clock Cogsworth (Ian McKellen), teapot Mrs Potts (Emma Thompson) and candelabra Lumiere (Ewan McGregor) to push the two together. After a while, when you've seen enough anthropomorphic creations to make you doubtful about every going near Ikea again, you might begin to wonder about how some of these fine actors are using very cheesy accented English worthy of a pantomime for their roles. Bill Condon has made some smart, assured features, including 1998's Gods and Monsters and 2015 Mr Holmes, but he has a tendency to wildly embellish musicals. His 2006 version of the Broadway hit Dreamgirls was long on Motown-era period detail and short on drama, and here it's a surfeit of baroque production design and a habit of having the camera pointlessly circle the characters that lingers. Despite dealing with some menacing wolves, this Beast is more sulky than threatening, and Belle barely seems to notice him even when she's nominally his prisoner. If there's no sense of danger, there's little fertile ground for a transformative romance to take root in. The scenes hit the expected notes, right down to Belle's yellow dress for her ballroom blitz with the Beast, but skilful proficiency isn't enough. The increasingly versatile Luke Evan, who appears to have inherited Kirk Douglas' chin cleft, capably sends up Gaston's matinee-idol conceit, while the paean to his character, Gaston, is one of the few numbers with genuinely enjoyable choreography. It also highlights Josh Gad, whose strength as LeFou is not a cursory nod to the character's sexuality but his musical theatre background via The Book of Mormon. Gad's a pro among talented amateurs. Disney and director Kenneth Branagh took an equally conservative approach with their 2015 remake of Cinderella, where not even Helena Bonham Carter's fairy godmother could wrong the rights, but that managed to at least suggest a storybook romance. The love in this Beauty and the Beast resides in the audience's affection for the 1991 soundtrack, which stars with nostalgic durability. For a film about finding freedom through devotion to an unlikely other, this has all the passion of a straitjacket.