CLEVELAND, Ohio - "Tale as old as time. True as it can be. ..." "Beauty and the Beast" really is a tale almost as old as time. The fairy tale about a lovely young woman who learns to love a cursed beast was first written in 1700s France and has been told over and over in the last 400 years. So, how do you make a "tale as old as time" new again? Director Bill Condon has succeeded with his 2017 live-action remake of the 1991 Disney animated version by sticking close to the material. He doesn't try to update or alter the classic tale. Instead, he hews close to the Disney original but makes it larger than life -- more sumptuous, more beautiful, more romantic, more extravagant and yes, darker. He and songwriter Alan Menken, who wrote the Oscar-winning score for the 1991 film, have also added four more songs, including the bittersweet "How Does a Moment Last Forever." The end result is a "Beauty and the Beast" for a new generation that is both classic and fresh. And Belle still has that golden gown, only more luxurious than ever. By having real actors play the roles, the film already takes on more emotional heft than the animated version. It's quite an impressive cast. Emma Watson is perfect as brainy village beauty Belle, one of Disney's most feminist princesses, who is mocked for her love of books and yet retains a pure, open heart. Her singing voice, sweet and clear, is especially impressive. Kevin Kline is just right as Maurice, her goodhearted but bumbling inventor father. Luke Evans is fantastic as the cad Gaston, who can't believe he can't win over Belle with his boastful wooing. Josh Gad is also just right as his admiring sidekick, LeFou. It's hard to evaluate Dan Stevens (Matthew on "Downtown Abbey") as the Beast, though. He's so unreal looking - a look created with the help of CGI - he never quite captures the humanity of the other characters, the humanity Belle needs to learn to see and love to save him from the curse that has turned him into a monster. The supporting cast is divine, from a cozy Emma Thompson as Mrs. Potts to a debonair Stanley Tucci as Maestro Cadenza and Ewan McGregor as the suave Lumiere. Perhaps because they are not as ghastly as the Beast, they are able to imbue more humanity in their inanimate characters than Stevens does with the Beast. The set is stunning, from the quaint village to the creepy forest and shadowy castle. The lovely costumes are perhaps even more impressive, from Belle's simple peasant dresses to her ornate gowns. Condon creates more backstory than the 1991 tale had. It begins before the Beast is cursed, when he's a cruel spoiled prince throwing lavish parties in his Versailles-like palace, an 18th-century bad boy with little thought for others. Until one day, an old lady asks for assistance, and he viciously turns her down. As we all know, that old lady is really a sorcerer, and she enchants the prince, his household and castle. They are all forgotten by time as life goes on in the nearby, charming but claustrophobically provincial village where Belle and her father live. Then one market day, Maurice gets lost in the woods, and through a series of unfortunate events, ends up at the castle. No need to recount the whole story here; there are no real changes from Disney's previous version. Suffice it to say, Belle sets out to save her father, and ends up as the Beast's "guest." Can he convince her to fall in love with him and break the spell? Can Belle rescue her father from the myopic villagers? Can Belle save the Beast from Gaston and crew, too? Will she ever truly love him? There are no surprises in the answers to these questions. But fairy tales are not about surprises, at least not after the first time. Rather, they are classic, iconic entertainment that touch on our deepest, most primal desires. Condon's "Beauty and the Beast" succeeds spectacularly, making this tale as old as time new, and powerful, again. REVIEW Beauty and the Beast Who: Directed by Bill Condon. With Emma Watson, Dan Stevens, Kevin Kline, Josh Gad, Luke Evans and Emma Thompson. Music by Alan Menken. Rated: PG (for some action, violence, peril and frightening images). Running time: 129 minutes. When: Opens Thursday. Where: Area theaters. Grade: A