Robin Clifford Laura Clifford A vain young prince throws a gala party. An old crone knocks on the door, seeking refuge and offers a beautiful rose for admission. He taunts the “gift” and throws her out, but not before she transforms into an enchanted creature who curses the prince, changing him into a hideous monster. The only thing that will break the spell is true love in “Beauty and the Beast.” Robin: An aging inventor and merchant, Maurice (Kevin Klein), lost in the woods on a stormy night, comes upon an enchanted castle. He seeks refuge there and is provided for by his unseen host. When leaving, he sees a perfect rose in the host’s garden, the only thing his daughter, Belle (Emma Watson), asked for. He takes the flower only to have a huge beast attack and throw him in a dungeon. His crime: stealing. It is up to Belle to free her father and soothe the savage beast. “Beauty and the Beast” is a lavishly wrought extravaganza that has all, and more, of the elements of the 1991 Disney animated classic – the songs (and a few new ones), fantastical sets, flashy special effects, big-time production values and a beloved story. But, I have to say, I was often bored and distracted while slogging through the faithful but uninspired live action remake. I still find myself humming “Be My Guest” and “Gaston” but none of the new songs made any impression on me. The CG is big budget but there are many times when the effects were obviously effects and I do not think that should happen, especially from Disney. Whereas the original musical, though an animation (and one of the early films to use CG, though limited), was organic and greater than its parts, the new version feels artificial and manufactured, even forced. Emma Watson is fine as the beautiful, plucky and smart heroine, Belle, and gives a yeoman’s effort with the singing. Dan Stevens, as the voice of the Beast – the CGI is so extensive with the character that the actor got lost in the technology – is a shadow of the superlative combination of animation and voice in the original. (Robbie Benson, of all people, did the voice of Beast, even the roars.) Luke Evans has the good looks to pull off the buffoonish and cowardly but handsome Gaston. Josh Gad, as his sidekick, Le Fou, is the first outwardly gay character in Disney animation features, which is getting its share of attention, good or bad. The voices of all the magical household appliances fill the bill well enough, too, but none stand out as they did in the original. (Jerry Orbach as Lumiere, the candelabra, and David Ogden Stiers, as Cogsworth, the clock make for one of animation’s best comedy teams.) I keep making comparison to the “original Beauty and the Beast.” But, the story has been around, in various incarnations, since the 15th Century, including he most wonderful telling of the fairy tale, on the big screen. That 1946 Jean Cocteau version that is still magical today and I highly recommend it. Following close on its heels is the Disney ’91 version. Way back down the line is the latest rendition, despite the obvious big budget. I give it a C+.