CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share Rediscover the magic of this Disney classic in a live-action musical starring Emma Watson as Belle and Dan Stevens as Beast. With detailed attention to the animated original and an enchanting backdrop, this fairy tale has been brought back to life. USA TODAY NETWORK Belle (Emma Watson) enjoys a dance with the Beast (Dan Stevens) in the live action 'Beauty and the Beast.' (Photo: Disney) Here’s some Disney magic for you: The new Beauty and the Beast actually improves upon the animated classic. Embracing its musical theater nature and adding depth to a familiar narrative, the live-action remake (*** out of four; rated PG; in theaters March 17) is a real Beauty. The film directed by Bill Condon (Dreamgirls) skews long — a full 45 minutes longer than the 1991 cartoon — but uses that time to unleash fresh new songs, personalize its supporting players and provide reasons for a provincial girl to fall in love with a ferociously grumpy beast. It’s the “tale as old as time,” so most everybody already has a handle on the plot: Belle (Emma Watson) is the well-read outcast of her village who comes to the rescue of her eccentric artist father (Kevin Kline) when he’s taken captive by the Beast (played via performance capture by Dan Stevens). The former prince is now the furry resident of a rundown castle, and when Belle switches places with her imprisoned dad, she and the Beast go from distrusting strangers to fledgling lovebirds. Standing in their way are angry townsfolk and a magical rose with falling petals that acts as a countdown clock for the Beast's humanity. Watson’s singing is shaky early on with the signature Belle, though she settles into her feisty character who has no patience for illiterate brutes like uber-macho town hero Gaston (Luke Evans). Stevens' Beast is created through visual effects wizardry, but he finds the right balance between the despair of his pre-Belle days and the good-hearted, surprisingly witty dude he later becomes. More time is spent showing how these two grow to dig each other beyond just geeking out over books — a new plot point has the Beast helping Belle come to grips with the loss of her mom. (Little ones may need to talk after seeing those scenes, and there are a couple of instances with wolves viciously attacking Belle and Beast that are a little harrowing.) Luke Evans (left) stars as the macho villain Gaston and Josh Gad is his sidekick LeFou in 'Beauty and the Beast.' (Photo: Laurie Sparham) The antagonists get more to do in the redo, plus their major Gaston number makes for a boisterous night at the bar. Gaston is the entertaining jerk Evans was born to play, and just as great is Josh Gad as his loyal aide-de-camp LeFou, a fun sidekick and voice of reason who fosters more than the average bro crush on his ruffian pal. The production also gets a boost from the household objects that famously come to life: Charming candelabra Lumiere (Ewan McGregor) is a highlight, as is the cockney-accented, tea-filled Mrs. Potts played by Emma Thompson, whose singing of Beauty and the Beast is a rousing delight. Condon very much stages his Beauty and the Beast as a real musical, from the over-the-top opening where the selfish prince is transformed by an enchantress, to a banquet worthy of Busby Berkeley where flying dishes highlight a dazzling performance of Be Our Guest. Lyrics by the late Howard Ashman that were cut from the animated film are added back here, and original composer Alan Menken and lyricist Tim Rice are obviously going for next year’s original song Oscar with new numbers. The best of the lot is the power ballad Evermore, which gives Stevens’ Beast extra heart while connecting him with the audience. If you don’t already adore the big lug, you will then. Like with Moana, Disney has made a conscious effort to modernize its female lead for a 2017 audience: As the servants try to gussy Belle up for dinner, she gives them sass and says, "I'm not a princess." And although she likes the yellow dress worn in the iconic dance scene, that thing gets ditched quick when she needs to go fight for her man-beast. Unlike last year’s The Jungle Book, Beauty and the Beast marries visual spectacle and sumptuous design work with a better story than its original, casting a spell on old fans and newcomers alike. Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/2lHQscA