Ready to proclaim Disney’s live-action “Beauty and the Beast” this year’s best new old musical? Be our guest. In a nice bit of sorcery, Disney’s taken their 1991 animated classic — and their 1993 Broadway hit — and combined them into a groundbreaking delight, anchored by a breakthrough performance by Emma Watson. That trick may not be quite as wondrous as a talking candelabra, perhaps. Emma Watson: No Stockholm syndrome in 'Beauty and the Beast' But it’ll do. Shall we dance? Emma Watson stars as Belle and Dan Stevens as the Beast in Disney's "Beauty and the Beast" directed by Bill Condon. (Courtesy of Disney) The classic fairy tale — at least, in its Disney version — has always been the story of Belle, a plucky village girl who loves books a lot more than she loves that lunkhead Gaston, who’s pestering her to marry him. But Belle’s poor. She feels trapped. And just when she thinks her troubles can’t get any worse, she becomes the captive of the Beast, an enchanted prince fated to remain a hairy monster until someone falls for him. It’s a grim fairy tale. Until slowly this beauty begins to see the tender heart beneath the beastly fur, and something else begins to work its magic. New ‘Beauty and the Beast’ Belle doll looks like Justin Bieber This lively new version is directed by Bill Condon, whose long Hollywood career has covered everything from a gory “Candyman” sequel to the big, belting “Dreamgirls.” Gaston (Luke Evans) is relentless in his pursuit of Belle (Emma Watson). Too bad he's a lunkhead. (Laurie Sparham) He’s built up a formidable toolkit of skills and he puts them all to work, giving us nods to beloved classics (there’s a shot that screams “Sound of Music”) and raucous action sequences (like a climactic, villagers-siege-the-castle scene that’s full of fight, and laughs). And Watson is an adult delight as Belle. Our Hermione has grown up, certainly, but she's stayed true to the smart girl we always knew — quietly strong, calmly self-assured and still happily bookish. How bookish? This is a young woman who first falls in love when the Beast takes her behind closed doors and finally reveals his impressively huge … library. SEE IT: Disney's ‘Beauty and the Beast’ trailer with Emma Watson The look of the Beast, voiced by Dan Stevens from “Downton Abbey,” is a little too computer-generated at times, and sometimes Condon’s direction gets misdirected. Although the song “Gaston” is terrific, the staging of the score’s biggest hit, “Be Our Guest,” quickly goes from busy to dizzy. Luke Evans is Gaston and Josh Gad is the unambiguously gay LeFou. (Laurie Sparham) But Luke Evans makes a wonderfully pompous Gaston, and Josh Gad gets to play Disney’s first, unambiguously gay character. (Another first for live-action Disney — several interracial romances, including a kiss between Stanley Tucci’s Cadenza and Audra McDonald’s Madame de Garderobe.) And none of those breakthroughs arrive with any explanations, or excuses, or even fanfare. They’re just accepted. They're just there. And that may be the most magical thing of all.