If we were feeling cynical we might say that Beauty and the Beast is the most carefully constructed license to print money we've ever seen. The songs, the production design, the costumes, the casting and the sheer merchandising potential are perfectly judged to score megabucks from audiences who we have no doubt at all will flock to cinemas and Disney stores for years to come. But, honestly who wants to be cynical? The fact is that Beauty and The Beast is the fairytale we need right now. A tale of tolerance and courage starring a bold young heroine who happens to be played by one of the most high-profile women's activists in the world, featuring Disney's first live-action interracial kiss (seriously, we can't believe it's taken this long) and an overtly gay subplot. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below © Disney Love musicals or hate them, love the original or don't, it's virtually impossible not to be seduced by the sheer warmth and romance of this thoroughly good-natured blockbuster. Emma Watson's Belle is a bookish outsider living with her eccentric father Maurice (a charming Kevin Kline). She spends her days tending their modest farm, inventing things to afford her time to read and dreaming of a less provincial life. But when her father goes missing after a trip to market, Belle decides to saddle up and go to the rescue. You know the story: Belle sacrifices herself to save her father and is imprisoned by 'The Beast' – a former immature and callous Prince cursed for his shallowness to remain in beastly form unless he can fall in love and be loved back. Crockery and furniture sing some songs. There's a bit of dancing. Belle's dickhead suitor Gaston (Luke Evans – deliciously despicable) thinks he's going to rescue her but makes everything worse. And it all works out okay in the end. © Disney Director Bill Condon has remained extremely faithful to the much-loved 1991 animation, retaining all the classic songs while adding some new flourishes of his own, including the song 'Evermore' – a longing lament sung by the Beast who has chosen to let Belle leave despite the dire consequences for him and his enchanted palace. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below It's lovely and fits perfectly into this subtly updated modern classic. As the director of two fairly dire Twilight movies (Breaking Dawn Pt 1 and Pt 2), Condon's got form when it comes to female-centric, supernatural romance. But we can't help feel that Emma Watson had a fair hand in shaping Belle. © Disney She's perfect for the part. Not just physically (though we can't possibly imagine anyone looking more right than the disarmingly gorgeous but innocent looking Watson) but in her performance as a whole. Her singing voice is spot on – understated, pretty, delicate and just the right amount of posh – while her slightly theatrical indignation and spunk plays as charming with Belle where it might have felt wooden in a different sort of movie.