Video Image Beauty and the Beast AU Official Trailer 2:01 Watch the brand new trailer for Disney's "Beauty and the Beast," starring Emma Watson & Dan Stevens. By Vicky Roach News Corp Australia Network BEAUTY AND THE BEAST Two stars Director Bill Condon Starring Emma Watson, Dan Stevens, Ewan McGregor Rating PG Running time 129 minutes Verdict Disappointing Disney throwback THERE’S nothing wrong with Emma Watson’s pipes. One might argue, however, that her professional judgment is a tad off-key. Committing to Disney’s live-action version of Beauty and the Beast as her first blockbuster lead post-Harry Potter raises questions on a number of different levels (especially since Watson chose it over Emma Stone’s Oscar-winning role in La La Land). This rather antiseptic adaptation of Jeanne-Marie Leprince de Beaumont’s 18th Century fairy tale about a kind-hearted young woman who falls in love with the monstrous prince that kidnaps her is a curious choice for an actress who has made more headlines, in recent years, for her feminist activism. Beauty’s hugely successful Disney live action predecessor, Maleficent, reimagined Sleeping Beauty from the point of view of the iconic 1959 villain (Angelina Jolie). Tim Burton’s earlier, eye-popping interpretation of Alice In Wonderland recast Mia Wasikowska as a Joan of Arc-style warrior perfectly capable of slaying a jabberwocky or two. A version of Beauty and the Beast that explores Belle’s Stockholm syndrome tendencies might have been worth exploring. But Bill Condon (Dreamgirls, The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn Part 1 and 2) sticks closely to the much-loved 1991 animated fantasy’s conservative roots. What “modern” tweaks there are feel token. Belle is ostracised in the village where she lives with her father Kevin Kline because she reads books. Puh-lease (although to be fair, most of the townsfolk, male and female, appear to be illiterate). Much has been made of Josh Gad’s outrageously camp LeFou, snivelling sidekick to the dastardly Gaston (Luke Evans). But if Disney’s first openly LGBTI character was going to be spineless sycophant, the filmmakers would have been better to leave well enough alone. The disappointment of Dan Steven’s flesh-and-blood Prince, on the other hand, is probably endemic to the story — no human actor could match the computer-generated Beast with five minutes of screen time. Criticism of Disney’s animation is tantamount to blasphemy (for a “live action” film, Beauty and the Beast has an awful lot of CGI), but for this viewer, some of the imagery simply didn’t cut it. The eyes on Emma Thompson’s teapot, for instance, feel crude and artificial. And the veteran British actress’s vocal performance fails to transcend the stiffness of her animated vehicle. Ewan McGregor’s candelabra Lumiere is a little more flexible. Watson fulfils her role as a classic Disney musical lead more than adequately — she’s the best thing about Beauty and the Beast. But the filmmakers have nothing — apart from advances in digital technology — to add to what is a very familiar story. Twenty-five years after its first, groundbreaking Disney outing, in the wake of gender-redefining female leads in animated Disney triumphs such as Moana and Frozen, Beauty and the Beast feels almost like a throwback. Beauty and the Beast opens on Thursday (March 23).