The uncanny valley deepens with Disney's new "Beauty and the Beast," specifically in its depiction of the Beast. Beautiful and visually imaginative as the picture can be in its slick, ultramodern blend of live action and CGI, the Beast is so relentlessly... animated. It's no spoiler to reveal that his character arc spans the broadest range of emotion, from vicious rage to selflessness. But it's difficult to peer into his eyes and see his soul among all the ones and zeroes. Compare this to the scarred, vicious and wiry white wolves that inhabit the forest outside the Beast's cursed castle. They're hyper-realistic digital concoctions, fully capable of generating fear, the type of one-dimensional quality quite convincingly rendered by computers. They're scary, unburdened by human consciousness. Does the technology exist to ever convincingly make a multifaceted character like the Beast truly feel alive, to generate that intangible spark of self-awareness? (This reminds me of the time I was among a round table of reporters interviewing Nicolas Cage, and a colleague asked him how he makes a death scene, in which the "light" goes out of his eyes, so convincing. His reply was, "I guess that's between me and God" - the kind of performance method I assume no computer could ever replicate.) 'Cinderella' review: Cate Blanchett, Lily James are perfect foils in resplendent fairy tale Anyway, this "Beauty and the Beast" is the latest in what I call Disney's overcomplexificationism concept, in which the studio recycles its animated classics, "updating" them to meet the visual and thematic expectations of modern audiences. They're "new." They're "improved." They're the same stories, but with more stuff in them and about them. Once, they were wondrous in their simplicity, animated by hand. Now, they're wondrous in their intricacy, animated by machine. There's artistry in both methods: 2015's smart "Cinderella" reiterated the classic story as a crackling feminist fairy tale, and 2016's "The Jungle Book" is a masterpiece of technique with rich allegories to match. (Now in Disney development: similar aesthetic reiterations of "Mulan," "Dumbo," "Snow White," "The Lion King" and Guy Ritchie's "Aladdin.") Bill Condon's "Beauty and the Beast" is a less successful endeavor. It bears the burden of following the 1991 film, a gorgeous classical cartoon studded with beloved musical numbers, and one of the few animated best picture Oscar nominees. It's gorgeous, colorful, graceful in its simplicity. The new film is essentially the same story, but with more of everything - more character backstories, more visual detail, more songs, more movement. Of course, more isn't always better. Sometimes, more is much more than enough. The character stuff functions reasonably well, especially those of us troubled by the 1991 film's depiction of Belle as a slight figment of whimsy. Here, she's played by "Harry Potter" alum Emma Watson as a sufficient young woman, pooh-poohed by regressivist townsfolk for teaching little girls how to read. In light of such contextual detail, when she sings of the provinciality of her French-countryside village, it stings a little more. Review: 'The Jungle Book' is a new masterpiece of artful visual effects Watson effectively blends pragmatism into the character's superficial radiance - she has no problem discarding the excess skirts of her golden gown as she races to her father Maurice's (Kevin Kline) aid. Her work lends depth to interactions with key participants: Warmth towards her melancholy, eccentric father. Disgust towards her arrogant suitor Gaston (Luke Evans). Wonderment for the numerous chattery anthropomorphs populating the Beast's home, played via voiceover and motion capture by a grab-bag of stars - Ewan McGregor as the gregarious candelabra Lumiere, Ian McKellen as the galumphing clock Cogsworth, Emma Thompson as matronly teapot Mrs. Potts, Gugu Mbatha-Raw as the fluttery feather duster Babette. And an ability to see beyond the Beast's (Dan Stevens) hideous exterior to the sensitive, damaged man inside. Watson's work is key to the film's themes, which address forgiveness, personal rehabilitation and the idea that magic exists as long as love is present. If she doesn't sell this stuff, it goes unsold. Yet there are instances when Watson is all but consumed by the action around her. The musical number "Be Our Guest," a magnificent showstopper sequence in the previous film, here becomes a whirling, churning, overwhelming visual hullabaloo, as if the only way Condon could improve upon the original was by adding more and more until it swallows Watson, who's clearly smiling and nodding blankly at an invisible dervish added in post-production. The environments surrounding her are artificial in spite of their exquisite detail, none more than the wintry bluster outside the castle, which Belle navigates in sleeveless gowns, yet never once seems cold. This problem also plagues the final sequence, which is very much a loudness, and where the film tosses its charm on the fire of violent spectacle. Our eyes frequently search for a focal point amidst the clutter. The aesthetic functions better during "Gaston," where the bustle - drunkenness implied; this is a family film, after all - surrounding the egocentric antagonist is appropriately rowdy. (The sequence highlights Josh Gad's flamboyant turn as Gaston's lickspittle LeFou, who participates in the film's much-hyped "gay moment." It's not that big of a deal.) Condon tends to err toward the grotesque, his characters and settings often so gilded and foppish, they'd knock Marie Antoinette dead. Even the elegance of Belle and Beast's spotlight dance sequence is an afterthought. And yet, nothing distracts from the troublesome rendering of the Beast, who always appears more manufactured than soulful. It's a hurdle I just couldn't get over. FILM REVIEW: 'Beauty and the Beast' 2.5 stars (out of 4) MPAA rating: PG for some action violence, peril and frightening images Director: Bill Condon Cast: Emma Watson, Dan Stevens, Luke Evans, Josh Gad Run time: 129 minutes Review: 'Kong: Skull Island' is awesomely entertaining monster bash 'Logan' review: Hugh Jackman's final act as Wolverine is a great comic book film Movie review: 'Get Out' is Jordan Peele's smart, provocative horror film