The latest addition to the ever-growing list of remakes of classic Disney animated films, Beauty and the Beast, keeps the magic from the original film while adding more flavour to the film. Rating: ⅘ Director: Bill Condon Classification: PG V Running Time: 2h19m READ: Zayn Malik stages wild party at London pad “Beauty and the Beast” is the fantastic journey of Belle, a bright, beautiful and independent young woman who is taken prisoner by a Beast in his castle. Despite her fears, she befriends the castle’s enchanted staff and learns to look beyond the Beast’s hideous exterior and realize the kind heart of the true Prince within. Director Bill Condon for the most part transfers the animated classic frame by frame to the live action screen. However, where Cordon really succeeds is in keeping the original film’s heart and soul but make some much needed changes that end up making it a better production as a whole. For Example, Belle (Emma Watson) gets some much needed character traits that makes her a more well-rounded person. The Beast (Dan Stevens) also receives a personality upgrade and even gets his own song. Watson and Stevens give a great performance and add to the magic of the film with their magnetic chemistry. The true magic of the film however comes from supporting cast - specifically LeFou (Josh Gad ) and Lumière (Ewan McGregor). Both of them steal the screen whenever they pop-up and provide hilarious comic relief. The cast of the film in general is spectacular. Everyone feels authentic to their characters and make sure to steer away from the movie becoming a cheese fest, instead making it a light-hearted adventure. The visuals in the movie are amazing. The way Cordon is able to turn the big musical numbers and make them even grander is something special. You will feel as if you're 6-years-old again and when Lumière starts singing Be Our Guest you will not be able to resist the urge to sing-along. The new score for the film is brilliant and the new song by the Beast fits in perfectly, adding a layer of depth to his character that was lacking in the original animated movie. The additions to the screenplay by Stephen Chbosky and Evan Spiliotopoulos fill in some of story’s gaps that weren't apparent as a child, but watching as an adult you see why they have filled in the gaps.