After the best single year for any studio in history last year, Disney looks to continue its remarkable run this year with a smaller yet muscular slate of films including more Marvel superheroes, Caribbean pirates, animated sequels, space operas, and live-action adaptations of classic animated tales. In the latter category comes one of the Mouse House’s heaviest hitters of all time — Beauty and the Beast. Source: Disney Disney finished 2016 with $8 billion in global box office receipts, A+ to A- audience Cinemascore grades for every Disney production, and nearly universal critical praise for their releases. The studio also took all of the top five spots on the year’s box office charts, and had seven of the top 12 highest grossing films as well. Beauty and the Beast is Disney’s first major release of 2017, and it’s a whopper. The original animated version is one of the top-grossing animated features in cinema history, adjusted for inflation (taking the equivalent of $1 billion in today’s dollars during its initial 1991 release). It was the first animated film to receive an Academy Award nomination for Best Picture. And it’s Oscar-winning musical score is one of the greatest ever written, including Best Original Song winner “Beauty and the Beast.” So the new live-action adaptation has a lot to live up to. Except it doesn’t really have to live up to the quality of the animated predecessor in order to score a windfall — all it has to do is be good enough to entertain the kids in the audience while making their parents nostalgic for the first picture. That’s more than enough to ensure strong attendance and a massive revenue stream from ticket receipts and merchandising. Indeed, sight unseen and with mostly positive reviews but far from universal critical endorsement, Beauty and the Beast is amassing blockbuster advance ticket sales and has achieved must-see status for mainstream audiences. It looks to open domestically in the $130 million range this weekend, and could in fact go as high as perhaps $145-150 million. Consider that even a weak 2x multiplier would guarantee a final North American cume in the $390-400 million range, with relative comparable overseas box office (in this hypothetical scenario) of about $500 million. That’s good enough for a $760 million global tally, which would basically be a worst-case scenario. When that’s what disappointment would look like, you know you’re going to have a good run. Source: Disney More likely is a $140+ domestic opening and multiplier in the 2.5-3.5x range, for a roughly $350-420 million grand total stateside. With international markets typically accounting for 60-70% of ticket sales for a release like this, we would then expect $600-900 million from foreign theaters and a worldwide box office cume in the range of $1+ billion. Disney has had mostly good results with their live-action adaptations of classic animated stories. Alice in Wonderland was the second-highest grossing movie of 2010 with north of $1 billion. Maleficent scored big with $750 million in 2014, while Cinderella took a healthy $543 million in 2015. And last year’s The Jungle Book came close to breaking $1 billion and wound up among the top-5 grossing films of 2016. However, Pete’s Dragon unfortunately only managed $143 million despite being exceptional. Still, the overall record is impressive, and with a major brand like Beauty and the Beast we can expect the best outing yet for this corner of the Disney kingdom. I expect Beauty and the Beast to finish as one of 2017’s top-grossing hits, with potential to take the second or third spot on the end-of-year box office lists, behind Star Wars: The Last Jedi and possibly Fate of the Furious. Whether it manages a top-2 or top-3 finish, I definitely think this picture is destined for a top-5 spot when all is said and done for the year. And I can’t even imagine what the merchandising numbers are going to look like for this one, other than to say they’ll be crazy. Source: Disney So, hype aside, is Beauty and the Beast a worthy remake of this beloved fairy tale? Read on for my full review! Fair warning, I will discuss some spoilers and plot points from this point forward — I rarely do so unless my reactions to the film necessitate mention of aspects that give rise to particular thoughts and praise/critique. The plot details I mention are more important to the story than I usually am willing to talk about for a film, but I assume a large number of folks have already seen the original film and/or already know the basic plot anyway. So consider yourself spoiler-warned! There were inevitably three ways this Beauty and the Beast production could turn out: it could revive the story in a faithful but entirely new and unique way elevating the material beyond expectations, establishing itself as a cinematic equal to the original or even shockingly surpassing it (as The Jungle Book managed to do last year with its IP); it could be a good and entertaining adaptation that gets enough right without making any big mistakes, not perfect and not as good as the original but a respectable remake that earns good will by creating a new generation of young fans while avoiding disappointing the adult fans; or it could have felt like an unnecessary remake depending on the known brand and popular songs to prop up a CGI-fest devoid of charm or humor, with some clear missteps and/or being less than entertaining. Anything less than a B+ range quality was going to feel like a failure, in other words, and ran the risk of making critics feel cynical about the entire venture and the Disney classic remakes in general, while turning off parents and failing to connect with child viewers. Luckily for Disney, the film winds up squarely in the middle category, an entertaining and well-made adaptation that doesn’t make any major mistakes (and indeed, tries to fix a few problematic aspects of the original tale) and should appeal to kids and parents, even if it doesn’t capture the full magical effect of the animated version. In this case, “close” is close enough. If I had to rank it on a scale of 1 to 10 for doing everything it could and should do as a live-action adaptation of a classic animated story, with The Jungle Book being a perfect 10 and Cinderella being a solid 8, then Beauty and the Beast is an 8.5, more than enough to be deemed a successful effort. Source: Disney The cast all do great jobs with their characters. The leads are charming and charismatic, with good chemistry together, and nothing else would’ve worked if Emma Watson and Dan Stevens (as Belle and the Beast) failed to light up the screen together. Their singing is amazing, too. But it’s Luke Evans and Josh Gad (as Gaston and LeFou) who repeatedly steal the movie, including with the two best musical numbers of the film and a couple of wonderful surprise reveals and subtext that elevates their relationship, their characters, and the film overall. Visually, Beauty and the Beast is spectacular. Costumes, hair and makeup, visual effects, art direction, and set designs are top notch and likely top contenders for some award season love at year’s end. The film blends real life actors and sets with the CGI and other effects work to excellent effect, and it’s all enough to keep viewers’ attention for the duration, particularly during the big musical numbers that mostly work as they need to and will surely earn applause and cheers from audiences. I say “mostly,” because there’s one that felt less compelling than I’d hoped it would be, but I’ll get to the reasons for that in a few moments. As an aside, I recently re-watched Fiddler on the Roof, and it’s funny that I was reminded of it during the opening act of Beauty and the Beast. When watching the animated film, this comparison never came to mind, and it’s specifically a product of the filmmaking in this adaptation that makes me mindful of that great classic live-action musical. This is all a side point, obviously, but for what it’s worth it matters if a movie pulls off a musical number successfully in a way that evokes one of the great musical adaptations in cinema history. There are less belly laughs to be found in this version compared to the animated feature, but there’s still plenty and it works well. Evans and Gad provide a great deal of it, and earn their MVP awards in this regard. Part of the reason there’s less feeling of constant humor is because the visual comedic cues being more pronounced throughout the animated Beauty and the Beast. Some of that is just naturally true because live actor’s faces aren’t as likely to be inherently physically amusing every moment we behold them. But it’s also in part because of choices made for the visuals in the movie, particularly the depiction of the castle’s enchanted staff/household items. Which brings us to the point in the review where I’ll explain what I feel didn’t work as well for the film, and why it’s unfortunate since these problems were relatively easy to fix. Source: Disney One of the few aesthetic choices that felt off was the dark dreariness of the castle. Yes, it was cursed; and yes, this was an aesthetic change from the original that does add to this film’s attempt to carve out its own style where it can without moving too far afield of faithfulness. However, the darker and somber surroundings here combine with the more literalist depiction of the cursed household staff to remove some of the more fancifully fun visual sensibilities that soften some of the rougher edges of the tale. Those softer edges were important for the tone, though, because the castle is essentially a prison for Belle, and those magical talking household items are the jailers trying to manipulate her in order to save themselves. That subtext is less pronounced in the animated feature, and so we can more easily forgive the machinations at work because they remind us clearly of their imaginary nature and our negative reaction to them in live-action (when Belle is a real flesh-and-blood person before our eyes) is probably enhanced. I think it would’ve been a better call to make the enchanted household items brighter in color, less precisely realistic in their depictions, and with slightly more irreverence even than in the animated version. Likewise, two crucial plot elements would’ve been easy to clarify and bring to the forefront, helping put a fine point on some of this adaptation’s attempts to address more problematic elements of the story. First of all, there’s the romantic interest between the characters. The Beast imprisons Belle as punishment for her father trying to take flowers from his garden, but the film makes a mistake of introducing the Beast’s own romantic interest in Belle — and the larger idea of her helping lift the curse — too soon, and should’ve instead had the servants secret manipulations take place unbeknownst to him or Belle. We could’ve seen him instead reach a point of respecting her and feeling guilty for punishing her for her father’s “misdeed,” to the point he saves her from the wolves when she tries to leave. Only after she chooses to return to the castle to help him heal should his feelings have been shown to overtly shift toward romantic love, and then his guilt and shame for imprisoning her and hoping to end his curse should’ve been highlighted as driving him to plan to release her anyway (and doing so when the crisis with her father arises). This could all be conveyed in existing scenes as-is, with minor dialogue changes and a few shifts in focus of tone and character emotional reactions. Source: Disney Belle’s own change of heart toward the Beast likewise seems to come a bit soon, considering she’s a prisoner. When it becomes obvious he’s developing feelings for her, the fact he keeps her prisoner should undercut any mutual attraction on her part. Her reactions are less easy to address than the Beasts, but by making her father more overtly guilty of a misdeed (albeit with a good hearted intention) and making Belle more insistent about keeping her word to remain “jailed” in place of her father (with the Beast simply pointing out that once he’s allowing her to come and go around the castle at her whim, she could thus easily try to sneak away and avoid the punishment despite her father’s guilt, if she wanted to do so), we’d have had a simultaneous sense of old-fashioned “justice” (one person taking another’s place in jail over an admitted misdeed) and integrity on Belle’s part regarding her oath to serve out the sentence. So the trick of that is, just make the garden clearly marked with “stay out” warnings, and the rose some particularly expensive and rare sort (indeed, make it the only one left alive in the garden amid the snow), so that Belle’s father overtly thinks about it and decides the elegance and expense of the castle makes him decide to outright steal a flower. True, he’s doing it for Belle, but I think trespassing against posted warnings and theft of something he says he knows is expensive and rare would help us feel simultaneous sympathy for his plight while also realizing the Beast’s perspective is harsh but not technically illegitimate or completely unfair. Coupled with Beast’s own feelings for Belle being about respect for her and her integrity, her intelligence, and her loyalty to her father instead of being so heavily inspired by romantic affections, these relatively minor and easy-to-accomplish changes would’ve had a big impact on the most troubling elements of the story. One final change toward the end might’ve also helped — make the enchanted staff admit not only their failure to protect the Beast as a young child, but also their selfishness in trying to manipulate Belle into loving the Beast to end their curse and to make up for their own past failures. When they help defend the castle at the end and seem destined to remain cursed, the added motivation of trying to make amends for their behavior toward Belle as well as toward the Beast would really go an extra level deeper in terms of subtext and character arcs. Source: Disney That’s a lot of critiquing, I know, and the truth is the film tries to soften much of this anyway. Even if it's too subtle about the changes, it's true Belle's imprisonment is more clearly defined as an agreement to replace her father, while she is able to move around the castle grounds and could try to escape if she wanted to do so. She remains precisely due to giving her word she’ll do so. The fact the Beast later tells her to leave on horseback proves he doesn’t think the woods are an inherent threat to her safely navigating them, so there’s no implication that she can’t try to escape earlier in the same manner. Once she’s free to move about the castle grounds and discovers the library books — the things she loves most in the world besides her father — she realizes the Beast is well-read and is the only person she’s ever met who can converse with her about the world beyond her small village. So we have more of an explicit understanding that her insistence on keeping her word and remaining a prisoner in place of her father is also influenced by the fact her lifelong loneliness and sense of being “odd” and “different” are gone at the castle, and she has access to the books she loves so much. Lastly, after the Beast saves her during her escape attempt, she decides to go back and from that point forward her imprisonment is even more overtly based on her willingness to remain because of her oath to do so. Those things all depend on us understanding the nuance and subtext of the story and the changes this live-action adaptation has made, and the truth is they should’ve gone several steps further in driving the points home. They probably feared too much overt expression of the changes would highlight the fact the changes were needed due to underlying problems in the story itself — a woman kept prisoner and falling in love with her jailer, having to look beyond his harsh external self and his imprisonment of her to see the “good side” of things and help him become a better man who treats her well and so on. Yes, it’s a fairy tale, and yes old-fashioned stories often relied on morally objectionable portrayals of women and men, but those things are facts rather than excuses or defenses. We’re watching the telling of the story now, today, in the 21st Century when we know the idea of a romance on those foundations is wrong for a lot of reasons. Which is why they made the changes, of course. And it’s fair to give them credit for changing it. But they should’ve definitely made the changes louder, more overt, and if anyone raised objections then it would be up to those folks to defend the original problems in the narrative. I think my point about the changes being too softly pronounced and needing clearer assertion in words and actions is proven by the number of reviews that interpret this adaptation as retaining the original narrative entirely rather than including the changes. As noted, we can reference the scenes and moments in the film that demonstrate the changes, and then tie them together to drive home the point that the changes definitely do exist. But it’s a problem if we need to lay it all out to convince anyone in the first place, and means the film’s efforts to fix the problems would greatly benefit from on-screen clarifications rather than after-the-fact ones. Source: Disney It’s worth recognizing the importance of taking problematic famous narratives such as this and making needed changes, and I think the film deserves credit for that, but if they’re going to do it then it’s worth drawing a lot more attention to it within both the film and the marketing. Starting a public conversation about it would’ve been a pretty terrific thing, and it’s actually still not too late for that. Having taken a lot of time to lay out some of my criticisms about the film, I must return to my main overall reaction, which is highly positive. It’s a gorgeous, entertaining, amusing fairy tale come to vivid life, and is bound to please the vast majority of audiences. It may not quite reach the magical heights I'd hoped for, but it tries valiantly and comes close enough that it more than justifies its existence. Box office figures and tallies based on data via Box Office Mojo, Rentrak, and TheNumbers. Follow me on Twitter, on Google+, and on Quora. Read my blog.