DISNEY’S live action Beauty and the Beast began breaking records a good four months –before its release. DISNEY UK BELLE OF THE BALL: Emma Watson takes a turn The first trailer was the most watched in its first 24 hours, with an incredible 127.6million online views. With that fan base you can understand why Chicago director Bill Condon decided not to tinker too much with the animated original from 1991. The big show tunes are all in the right places, the story hits the same beats and whole swathes of original dialogue have made it into the script. Despite employing an army of designers, hair stylists, set builders and gown stitchers, it even looks the same.A few new scenes and a smattering of lacklustre new songs stop it becoming a shot-to-shot remake but he’s pretty much copied it frock-to-frock. DISNEY UK HAIRY: The CGI gives the Beast some extra soul This timid film-making should invite the wrath of any self-respecting critic, particularly one who praised the same studio for brave departures taken in last year’s Jungle Book and Pete’s Dragon remakes. But after two hours of great songs and rousing dance routines, I didn’t have it in me. Cleary, there’s still plenty of Disney magic in this fairytale. The tweaks add a little weight to the characters. A new prologue shows us an arrogant French fop (Dan Stevens) humiliating a poor beggar woman who gatecrashes a lavish party. DISNEY UK DASHING: Luke Evans makes a great Gaston This makes the undercover witch’s curse feel a little more justifiable. The dashing aristocrat is turned into the furry Beast and forced to live miserably with his servants who are transformed into irritating talking household objects. Unless he learns how to love and how to be loved before the last petal falls off the witch’s rose, the makeover will be permanent. Feisty villager Belle (Emma Watson) ends up the Beast’s prisoner when she swaps places with her artist dad (Kevin Kline). And after discovering a shared love of reading with her captor, Belle begins to see his inner beauty. Rival suitor Gaston (Luke Evans) has a very different condition – he’s handsome on the outside but a monster within. Harry Potter Cast: Then And Now Wednesday, 15th February 2017 From fresh-faced newcomers to global phenomenons! Check out the transformations of the stars of “Harry Potter!” 1 / 10 Emma Watson as Hermonie Granger “The big show tunes are all in the right places” Andy Lea Evans, best known for his turn in The Hobbit, has the pipes and the charisma to bring the original songs back to life. His big number “Gaston” is wittily staged and expertly sung. And Josh Gad, who found fame in The Book of Mormon, is perfectly cast as his toadying sidekick LeFou. You can ignore the fuss about him being the first openly gay Disney character. Blink and you’ll miss his supposedly big reveal. And as this is a musical about flouncy Frenchmen, LeFou is no camper than anyone else. Watson was probably cast for the Harry Potter crowd instead of her musical talent, but she handles her songs capably enough.