Photo // Emma Watson stars as Belle and Dan Stevens as the Beast in Disney's BEAUTY AND THE BEAST, a live-action adaptation of the studio's animated classic directed by Bill Condon. © © 2016 Disney Enterprises, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Film Review/Film: 05 Apr 2017 Roe McDermott Film Review: Beauty & the Beast Disney remake only partially succeeds. There are risks to any remake, but doing a shot-for-shot version of a classic film seems… well, Jackass-style risky. While the latest iterations of Cinderella, The Jungle Book and Pete’s Dragon all diverged from the original cartoons, Bill Condon’s Beauty And The Beast is almost identical. And when nostalgia is combined with direct comparisons to one of the most beloved cartoons in history? Disappointment can only prevail. Not that Condon’s lavish production doesn’t offer plenty in the way of joy and spectacle – it does. There’s something charmingly theatrical about the direction, which embraces the primary coloured-costumes and dramatic hairdos (Luke Evans’ Gaston is almost shockingly raven-locked). Bookish heroine Belle (Emma Watson) disaffectedly wanders through an immaculate chorus of singing townspeople only to emerge alone on a picturesque mountaintop as the plot demands. Animated dance numbers by enchanted objects feels like Fantasia being performed at the Tonys, sponsored by a confetti company. And the renowned duo of Audra McDonald and Josh Gad boost up the musical theatre credentials. Watson might need the help. As the headstrong Belle is imprisoned by a misunderstood Beast (Dan Stevens under tons of CGI), the actress’ singing and acting are serviceable, not soaring. Condon adds a tragic backstory about Belle’s mother, as well as some light banter between Belle and the Beast to evoke emotion, and gloss over any lingering questions about Stockholm Syndrome. It almost works. The Beast’s castle is a wonder, all gothic architecture and glittering chandeliers – though the castle’s servants, cursed to live as anthropomorphised objects, lack consistency. The charismatic, flirtatious candelabra Lumiere (voiced by Ewan McGregor) is a mini Tin-Man, all metallic humanoid expression in 3D. Mrs. Potts (Emma Thompson), meanwhile, is a smiley emoticon crudely scrawled onto the side of a teapot. However, the teapot emoji still sings as the lovers waltz, the Beast still gifts Belle with an infinite library, and everyone gets a happily ever after, with much charm along the way. It’s just that remaking a tale as old as time is bittersweet and strange.